Full year revenues were £6.0 million, an increase of 
125% from £2.7 million in FY09. Monitise continues 
to perform well with revenues in the second half 
of FY10 of £4.3 million, an increase of 170% from 
£1.6 million in the second half of FY09. All revenue 
streams are growing with transactional revenues, in 
particular, growing rapidly at £2.9 million in FY10, 
representing an increase of 490% from £0.5 million 
in FY09*. 
Cost levels in the second half of the year include 
increased investment in the technology platform and 
costs of supporting our international growth. The 
adjusted operating loss for the full year, excluding 
share based payments and the exceptional gain 
made on taking 100% ownership of our UK joint 
venture, was £14.3 million* (2009: £12.0 million). 
The strong demand for the higher value services, 
driven in part by the laun ch of the Company’s 
smartphone platform in November 2009, has 
meant that the high value “advanced” segment now 
represents 28% of our customer base, compared 
to 23% reported for the half year results, with 
an accompanying impetus to both revenues and 
underlying gross margin. The launch by Visa of a 
smartphone application, produced under our Global 
Alliance Agreement, together with other impending 
partner product launches are expected to boost user 
numbers substantially during FY11. 
Post the year-end we secured investment of £32.4 
million, before expenses, by a subscription for new 
ordinary shares by Visa International and First Eastern 
and a placing of new shares with new and existing 
institutional investors.
The fund raising is expected to enable the Group to 
become cash generative without the need for further 
equity funding.
* Growth in transactional revenues and an increased 
cost base from acquiring full ownership of Monitise 
Europe (formerly Monilink) in Au gust 2009 are 
discussed further in the Financial Review.
Live Operations
Monitise Europe
During the financial year Monitise acquired full ownership of its UK operations, Monilink - formerly a 50/50 joint 
venture with VocaLink. The business has been fully absorbed and rebranded as Monitise Europe.
Monitise Europe has already achieved coverage which gives access to its technology to more than 55% of the 
UK retail banking market. Revenues have grown rapidly during FY10 and are currently at an annualised run rate 
close to £5 million. Consumer demand for our smartphone apps. has been a strong revenue driver, and operations 
have been scaled accordingly. We are now seeing customers for our “Advanced” smartphone apps transacting on 
average 16 times a month. As revenues have grown the operating loss has reduced, and this 100% owned business 
remains on track to reach month-on-month cash break-even by December 2010.
Monitise Americas
In the USA we have a 49% equity stake in a joint ve nture, Monitise Americas, with our partner FIS. FIS provides 
wide coverage of financial institutions throughout the USA, and Monitise Americas has agreements in place with 
more than 200 financial institutions, offering a wide range of services. Taking into account the Group’s share of the 
annual licence fee of US$1.5 million payable by the joint venture, Monitise Americas is currently operating at close to 
cash break-even.
Global Accounts*
Monitise announced a Global Alliance Agreement (GAA) with Visa on 30 June 2009. This five year agreement 
stipulated minimum revenues payable to Monitise by Visa of US$13 million, combining Visa’s reach, payments 
expertise and brand with the Monitise Mobile Money Manager platform and toolkit.
As announced on 13 July 2010, to build on this relationship, Monitise reached an agreement with Visa to extend 
the five year term of the GAA by an additional one year to June 2015, at the same time increasing the minimum 
revenues payable to Monitise b y Visa under the GAA from US$13 million to US$16 million.
The joint venture in India is a key milestone in our relationship with Visa, and is discussed in further detail below. In 
addition, Monitise agreed to grant Visa an exclusive licence for deployment of its Mobile Money Manager platform in 
Russia and Mexico for a licence fee of US$1.5 million, expected to be recognised in FY11.
We are delighted that Visa is to launch its first smartphone service in the US and look forward to further deployments 
during the coming year. Monitise is a key strategic development partner for Visa’s suite of mobile services, which 
include payments, mobile money transfers, mobile transaction alerts and mobile marketing offers to support Visa’s 
mobile strategy.  Development activity continues and has built in scale significantly during the year. We anticipate 
that transactional revenues from the Global Alliance Agreement will build during FY11. 
*  Global accounts represent the group’s products  and services to Monitise’s global cross-territory customers, 
including Visa and Travelex.
Alastair Lukies
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Monitise’s user base continues its 
strong growth with an improving mix of 
customers. The Company currently has 
well in excess of 2 million registered 
customers, having more than doubled 
the number of registered customers 
since October 2009. The current growth 
rate is in the region of 100,000 per 
month. We are seeing improved revenue 
per customer; in particular, smartphone 
users are an increasing segment of our 
customer base and they are both using 
a wider range of our services and using 
those services more frequently. 
Overview Monitise plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 06
Investment in future operations 
Monitise Asia Pacific
Our 50/50 joint venture with First Eastern Mobile Investments Limited (part of the First Eastern Investment Group), 
which was announced in April 2010, is now up and running. The  initial focus is on Hong Kong as a launch market, 
where discussions are underway with a number of banks and network partners. There are also plans for entry into 
the mainland China market and we expect this JV to take advantage of other opportunities across the broader 
Asia-Pacific region. The joint venture is expected to see transactional revenues commence in FY11 and to scale 
significantly following roll-out of live services in China in FY12. 
Monitise India
The formation of a 50/50 joint venture in India with Visa, which was announced in May 2010, completed in June 
2010 as scheduled. Launch is anticipated in FY11 and transactional revenues are expected to build in FY12.
The new joint venture company combines Visa’s expertise in enabling secure, globally interoperable financial 
transactions with Monitise’s know-how in developing mobile financial technology for a broad range of handsets. It 
builds on the existing partnership between Visa and the Company and will give provi ders of financial services in 
India a platform to accelerate the delivery to consumers of mobile financial services such as banking, bill payments, 
mass transit ticketing, mobile top-up and other services in a market with an estimated 584 million mobile phone 
subscriptions as at March 2010**.
In addition to the joint venture with Visa, Monitise is broadening its presence in the Indian market through a 
partnership with Standard Chartered Bank. 
**Source: Telecom Regulatory Authority of India
Monitise Africa
Development activity in delivering Mobile Money services for Africa is ongoing with funding support from the Africa 
Enterprise Challenge Fund. Positive dialogue with potential partners is expected to lead to announcements later this year.
mCommerce
We expect mCommerce to play a key part in future developments and we are actively developing a Mobile Retail 
proposition to provide Mobile Money services to retailers and their customers. Discussions with various partners 
continue t o progress positively, and we expect to launch pilot services in the medium term.
Investment in technology platform
Monitise continues to invest in the development, maintenance and enhancement of its Mobile Money Manager 
platform. Our goal is to maintain market leadership through enabling flexible connectivity between the infrastructures 
of leading financial institutions and payments systems, mobile phone operators, handset manufacturers, transaction 
processors and merchants across a range of business sectors.
Board appointments
We are delighted to welcome Elizabeth Buse to the Board as Non-Executive Director. Elizabeth joined the Board in July 
following Visa’s additional investment. She is a member of the Executive Team and the Group Executive, International, 
for Visa Inc. with responsibility for overseeing Visa’s global sales and client service functions across Asia-Pacific, Central 
Europe, the Middle East and Africa. 
John Brougham was appointed Chief Financial Officer in  April 2010, adding a weight of experience gained through 
many years in a variety of senior executive positions at BT. In addition, we announced in April 2010 that Lee Cameron, 
a current board director and General Counsel, would take additional responsibility for group business development and 
marketing as Chief Commercial Officer.
Chief Executive’s Business Review (continued)
Monitise aims to be the global leader in mobile financial solutions.
Monitise’s Mobile Money Manager platform has been designed to enable banking and payments anywhere and 
everywhere in the world. Our aim is to be the platform of choice for banking and other financial institutions throughout 
the world. Having established itself and proven the technology in the UK and US markets, Monitise’s strategy is to 
continue to invest in its technology and to expand its reach, initially into other markets with high growth potential, by 
working with local and international partners who can provide both the secure  local infrastructure and the international 
functionality which are necessary in new markets.
Monitise Europe, is on track to reach month on month cash break-even by December 2010, and in total our existing live 
operations, comprising our activities in Monitise Europe, Monitise Americas and on our Global Accounts, are expected 
to become month on month cash break-even during FY12.
Our cash balance at the date of this report is in excess of £42 million and will enable Monitise to retain and extend 
its technological advantage, to fund investment in new areas of operation and to provide funding for ongoing growth 
through to cash breakeven for the Group.
George Osborne, UK Chancellor, endorses Monitise India joint venture.
Strategy and Outlook
Alastair Lukies
Chief Executive Officer 
05 Monitise plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010  Alastair Lukies – CEO and Co-founder (aged 36)
Alastair co-founded the Monitise business and is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Alastair has a  proven 
track record as an entrepreneur. Prior to conceiving, financing and successfully building Monitise, his first business 
venture was the formation of a sports event and conference company in Malaysia, and then he co-founded epolitix.
com, the portal for Westminster, Whitehall and the devolved institutions. Alastair is a regular attendee at the World 
Economic Forum and has spoken on the challenges facing the Forum’s Global Growth Companies.
John Brougham – Chief Financial Officer (aged 59)
John was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 27 April 2010, having previously been a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2008. John brings a wealth of financial experience built through his career 
with British Telecom having previously served as Finance Director of BT Transformation and CFO of BT Global 
Services. 
Lee Cameron – Chief Commercial Officer (aged 39)
Lee was appointed Chief Commercial Officer during the year having previously been General Cou nsel. A solicitor, 
Lee brings over 10 years of in-house experience having previously been Legal Director at Morse plc where he was 
responsible for the Group’s mergers and acquisitions, legal and HR departments and corporate governance.
Lee started his legal career as a barrister.
Duncan McIntyre – Non-Executive Chairman (aged 51)
Duncan is Non-Executive Chairman of the Company having transferred from Executive Chairman on 4 December 
2008. Previously he was Chief Executive Officer of Morse plc, which he joined as Finance Director in 1994. He 
is a chartered accountant and worked at Price Waterhouse for ten years before joining Morse. He is also a Non-
Executive Director of several other companies.
David Dey – Senior Non-Executive Director (aged 72)
David had a long career with IBM in the US, France and the UK, following which he joined The Plessey Company 
as Head of Telecoms Division. He was on the Board of Directors of British Telecom for four years before founding 
Energis.  For the past twelve years, David has chaired a number of start-up companies in telecoms, software and 
other industry sectors.
Peter Radcliffe – Non-Executive Director (aged 60)
Peter has held senior positions in four FTSE 100 and Fortune 250 bank and IT companies. Peter’s entrepreneurial 
responsibilities covered global and regional territories, with a period of two years spent in Hong Kong as 
Managing Director of First Data Asia Pacific. Over the past eight years, Peter has been involved with the Centre 
for Entrepreneurship at the London Business School, investing in and mentoring the MBA students and London 
Business School alumni. He is also a director of several other companies.
Colin Tucker – Non-Executive Director (aged 65)
Colin is a Non-Executive Director. He was Deputy Chairman of Hutchison 3G and was Technical Director of Orange 
for ten years. Colin was also a Non-Executive Director of Morse plc for seven years and has 30 years’ experience in 
the telecommunicatio ns and electronics industries.
Jan Verplancke – Non-Executive Director (aged 47)
Jan is Chief Information Officer for Standard Chartered Bank and is responsible for all systems development, 
technology support and banking operations. Prior to joining Standard Chartered, Jan was CIO-EMEA for Dell, where 
he achieved considerable cost reduction and process improvement over his tenure and was responsible for the 
expansion of Dell’s business into new markets. He began his career at Levi Strauss in Brussels.
Elizabeth Buse – Non-Executive Director (aged 49)
Elizabeth was appointed to the Board on 30 July 2010. Elizabeth is currently a member of the Executive Team 
and the Group Executive, International, for Visa Inc. with responsibility for overseeing Visa’s global sales and 
client service functions across Asia-Pacific, Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Previously, Elizabeth was 
the global head of product for Visa Inc., leading all aspects of product strategy, developme nt and growth. Prior to 
assuming the role of global head of product, Elizabeth was Executive Vice President of product development and 
management for Visa USA.
Board of Directors
07 Monitise plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Monitise plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 08 All the Group’s current live operations are on track 
to become cash break-even before or during FY12, 
and our new joint ventures in India and Asia Pacific 
show that we continue to invest where there is great 
potential to create significant value from our growing 
portfolio of mobile banking and payment services.
The recent fundraising (see note 32) greatly 
strengthens the balance sheet, enables us to realise 
benefits in full from high growth opportunities, and 
is planned to fund the Group until it becomes cash 
generative through its own operations.
John Brougham
Chief Financial Officer
Financial Review
Monitise continues to grow 
rapidly with total revenues more 
than doubled in the year to £6.0 
millio n. Critical to the Group’s 
move towards profitability is 
the expansion of transactional 
revenues, which at £2.9 million in 
the year were £2.4 million higher 
than the previous year. 
Financial Performance
Financial highlights
Revenues in the year grew by 125% from £2.7 million to £6.0 million, with increases in all three revenue categories, 
consultancy from £1.1 million to £1.4 million, licence fees from £1.1 million to £1.7 million and a step change in 
growth in transactional revenues from £0.5 million to £2.9 million. On a like for like basis, allowing for the acquisition 
of full ownership of Monitise Europe in August 2009, total revenue growth was £3.8 million. Transactional revenue 
growth on a like for like basis was £2.0 million. 
The primary driver of transaction revenue growth was the rollout of our Smartphone platform in November 2009, and 
this was a major factor in the growth in revenues from £1.7 million in the first half to £4.3 million in the second  half. 
Transactional revenues are expected to continue to represent a growing proportion of total revenues in future years.
Revenues doubled in our live operations from the first to second half of the year resulting in a significant reduction in 
operating losses as demonstrated below: 
Monitise Europe is on track to reach month on month cash break even by December 2010. In total the existing 
live operations, comprising our activities in Monitise Europe, Monitise Americas and on our Global Accounts, are 
expected to become cash break even during FY12.
 
Live Operations 2010 H1 £’m  2010 H2 £’m  2010 FY £’m 
Revenue 1.6 3.2 4.8
Operating loss (1.6) (0.9) (2.5)
A more detailed financial breakdown of the operating segments in Monitise is shown in note 5. The largest business 
area is Monitise Europe, which was our first operation to go live in 2007 and generated £3.2 million of revenues in 
the year.
Monitise Americas became live in 2008 and, taking into account the Group’s  share of the annual $1.5 million licence 
paid from the joint venture, as well as the consultancy and transactional revenues it generates, is currently close to 
break-even.
There is significant, and growing, development activity within our Global Accounts business and we expect the first 
Monitise enabled Visa Inc product launch in FY11 with the first transactional revenues generated later in the year.
Within the investment in future operations segment, our Asia Pacific joint venture is expected to generate 
transactional revenue for live services in both Hong Kong and China during FY12. The India joint venture is planned 
to launch by the end of FY11 with transactional revenues building the following year.
The Group spent £4.9 million on its technology platform in the year to maintain and extend our technological 
capabilities and strengthen the depth of our customer propositions. We will continue to invest in our platform to 
maintain our technological advantage in the market and d rive ongoing growth.
The adjusted operating loss for the Group, excluding share based payments and exceptional gain, in the year 
was £14.3 million (2009: £12.0 million). In August 2009 we acquired the other 50% of our joint venture in the UK, 
Monilink, now rebranded as Monitise Europe. We have previously reported 50% of the operating losses in this 
business under proportional consolidation. On a like for like basis, the adjusted operating loss for the Group for the 
year was flat compared to prior year with a reduction in loss in Monitise Europe, as it continues its journey to break-
even, being offset by increased investment in new development opportunities across the Group.
Statutory operating loss for the Group was £17.1 million (2009: £13.7 million).
As part of the acquisition accounting required under revised IFRS 3 rules, the Group reported a gain of £1.0 million 
in the year. Full details of the acquisition accounting are included in note 30.
In line with the requirement s of IFRS 2, we have recognised a non-cash charge of £3.8 million for share-based 
payments (2009: £1.8 million). The majority of the charge arises from options whose vesting was accelerated in 
March 2010 in line with the agreement by shareholders on 25 March 2010 to modify vesting criteria and in advance 
of increased tax rates for the 2009/10 tax year. Share based payment charges are expected to decline in
future years.
Loss Per Share
The basic and diluted loss per share was 3.7p (2009: loss 4.0p). Details can be found in note 23.
Cash Flow and Funds
Monitise raised £17.9 million in the year through subscriptions and issue of new shares. After the year end, in July 
2010, a further £31.0 million has been raised through a further subscription and placing agreement for new shares 
(see note 32) giving a cash balance in excess of £42 million after receipt of funds in August 2010. All subscription 
and placing amounts are quoted after expenses. 
The cash outflow from operating acti vities, including the Group’s share of joint venture activities, was £13.9 million 
(2009: £11.4 million). The cash outflow from capital expenditure was £1.1million (2009: £0.3 million) with the 
increase in spend representing the Group’s strategic decision to provide an improved hosting solution for its core 
platform.
Treasury Activities and Policies 
The Board formulates the Group’s treasury policy objectives and policies which are designed to manage the Group’s 
financial risk and secure cost-effective funding for the Group’s operations. These objectives include the requirement 
to minimise risk on investment funds but maintain flexibility. The majority of funds are currently held in a mix of term 
deposits. Other financial instruments are comprised principally of trade receivables and payables arising from the 
Group’s operating activities.
Hedging of known future foreign cash investments or income flows will be undertaken, as deemed appropriate, to 
mitigate the G roup’s exposure to foreign exchange risk going forward. It is and will continue to be the Group’s policy 
that no speculative trading in derivatives shall be undertaken.
John Brougham
Chief Financial Officer 
09 Monitise plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Monitise plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10 JOINT STATEMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Introduction
This year has been one of sustained progress, marking the successful turnaround of ServicePower. The Company’s strengthened
financial position and move into profitability means it now has a solid footing from which to capitalise on its growing market
opportunities. Through this improved financial performance we have established the value of our technology and the strong
pipeline of opportunities we now see highlights this.
Market conditions for our business are positive. We provide a solution that enables services businesses to improve efficiencies
and reduce resources, delivering a tangible return on investment. We  have shortened the sales cycle for our services through
competitive pricing at a sustainable level, achievable through the more efficient manner in which our business is now managed.
Our ability to offer both traditional licencing models and Software as a Service (SaaS) models has been well received by our
customers and we believe continues to be the way in which to successfully address our market.
There is a growing momentum in our market, as our potential customers become more aware of the value of an outsourced
service operation. We continue to invest in research and development to enhance the functionality of our product range and
capture these wider opportunities.
We have achieved a greater level of clarity in the marketing of the ServicePower offering which is resulting in a growing pipeline.
In addition, we believe our breadth of offering, being able to not only manage scheduling but also the despatching of work,
warranty claims management and installation, is a unique aspect of  our business which has proved beneficial in our new business
initiatives and may be even more so in the year ahead.
In the coming year we will seek to increase the product development roadmap and marketing of the ServicePower brand into
new verticals, while maintaining our focus on the US and UK.
Financial Review
The Company has two segments, ServiceOperations and ServiceScheduling.
Total revenue for the year increased to £18,255,000 (2009: £18,108,000). ServiceOperations revenue increased by 11 per cent.
to £11,480,000 (2009: £10,310,000) whilst ServiceScheduling licence and consultancy revenue decreased by 13 per cent. to
£6,775,000 (2009: £7,793,000).
A breakdown of revenue from the ServiceOperations segment is as follows:
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Hosting/SaaS 1,862 2,943
Operations US 2,991 2,864
Operations UK 6,627 4,503
Total 11,480 10,310
2 A breakdown of revenue from the ServiceScheduling segment is as follows:
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Licences 1,544 2,405
Implemen tation / Support 4,786 4,746
Mobility 445 642
Total 6,775 7,793
The Company continued to invest in enhancement of functionalities across all of its product range, investing £448,000 in 2010
(2009: £556,000).
Gross profit for the year decreased by 19 per cent. to £5,102,000 (2009: £6,295,000) with the gross margin percentage
decreasing from 35 per cent. to 28 per cent. due to change in product mix in revenue in the year.
The total profit before taxation was £577,000 from a loss of £4,017,000 in 2009. This includes the following;
2010 2009
£’000 £’000
Release/(charging) of restructuring provisions 256 (900)
Foreign exchange gain/(loss) 310 (1,196)
Impairment on intangible assets — (822)
Total one-time costs and foreign exchange gain/(loss) 566 (2,918)
Adjusted profit/(loss) before taxation, one-off costs and foreign exchange gain/(loss) 11 (1,099)
Basic earnings per share for the year was 0.30p (2009: loss per share of 2.2p).
Cash balances increased to £3,665,000 at 31 Dec ember 2010 from £3,543,000 at 31 December 2009. The directors cannot
recommend the payment of a dividend at this time. Further information on the going concern basis of preparation is included in
note 2.
Partnerships
We continue to seek partnership opportunities with global businesses, integrating with their technology offerings in order to
broaden our market reach both in terms of geographies and industry verticals. A particularly significant new partnership was
signed with Syclo in the year, a provider of mobile computing solutions for the field service and mobile professional sectors to
whom we have outsourced our mobile offering. This partnership gives us entry into new verticals in which Syclo has a
particularly strong presence such as telecoms and utilities. Having replaced the incumbent provider, the commitment from both
parties towards the success of the partnership has been evidenced through the winning of the first joint contract in May.
Customers
We were pleased to sign con tracts with several of our existing customers in the year to provide additional services and product
capabilities. These included the deployment of ServiceStats, our new business intelligence product at Farmers Insurers, providing
them with an in-depth view of workforce activity against claims; the extension of ServiceScheduling licences with ADT Fire and
Security following their recent acquisition in the US, and the implementation of a SaaS version of our ServiceScheduling software
with Pitney Bowes in North America and Europe.
3 We have enjoyed a good rate of new customer wins. These included a ServiceScheduling licence win with one of the world’s
largest claims management and loss adjusting organisations; a ServiceScheduling SaaS win with Keyword Advisors; and a
ServiceOperations licence with one of the world’s leader TV manufacturers, where ServicePower replaced the incumbent
provider.
We were also delighted to begin work on a trial service proposition for one of the UK’s lea ding supermarkets during the year.
This trial was carried out successfully in a small region of the UK and has subsequently been rolled out into additional regions as
announced in February 2011. This is a multiple home trades proposition and has the potential to be of significant scale if fully
launched later in the year.
Post year end, we signed a significant multi-year licence and revenue share contract for our ServiceOperations software with
Assurant Solutions, one of the world’s leading speciality insurance providers. Having used our software via SaaS for over five
years, Assurant Solutions has now expanded its use of ServiceOperations into claims and dispatch. Importantly, Assurant
Solutions will also provide access to the ServiceOperations software to its commercial customer base, which includes some of
the world’s leading retailers and manufacturers. Assurant Solutions plans to develop the software platform in new directions
designed to significantly improve the retail and c ustomer experience in the extended service contract and home
services industries.
This contract has the potential to be a transformational development for ServicePower, providing direct access to Assurant’s
global customer base. Implementation of the service has begun and we look forward to updating shareholders on the uptake by
Assurant Solutions’ customers in due course.
Market developments
With the provision of In Home Services estimated to be worth $700 billion globally and installation worth $200 billion, we are
operating in what is clearly a valuable market. In the current economic climate, retailers in particular are seeing slow growth in
store revenues and are seeking new means of revenue generation. There is a growing recognition of the value of service
offerings, such as installation and warranty, alongside traditional product ranges.
Our focus will continue to be on the North American and UK services markets, where we have flagship customers and proof of
successful insta llations.
Products
We continued to invest in enhancements to our core ServiceScheduling and ServiceOperations products in 2010, including the
launch of ServiceScheduling on SaaS and the introduction of ServiceStats, a new business intelligence product, to Scheduling
customers.
The new ServiceMobility platform based on Sybase iAnywhere was expanded to support the RIM Blackberry OS and will next
year be expanded to support the Apple iOs and Android.
In the year ahead, progress will continue. A major new ServiceScheduling release will add support for new platforms and
operating systems, and will enable management of staff capacity at a more granular level and improve handling of non-working
time, such as breaks. Further server to server integration between Service GPS will be developed and the ServicePower
Workforce Analysis Tool (SWAT) product will also be expanded to integrate with forecasting. Further integration between
Service Scheduling and ServiceOperations will be enhanced with a  common front end.
4 Growth Strategy
Looking to the year ahead, our focus will continue to be on our key North American and UK markets. With the securing of
recent landmark contracts we are in a position to gradually increase our headcount in the areas of product development, project
management and consultancy in both geographies. We will seek to expand out of our core verticals of consumer electronics and
appliances into telecoms and utilities, both directly and via our partners, and expect to see particularly exciting developments in
the retail market.
Our trial contract with one of the UK’s leading supermarkets has also enabled us to expand from the provision of networks of
brown and white goods repairers into other trades, such as plumbing, home decorating and pest control. We are in a great
position to leverage this new network for other customers.
Outlook
This has been an encouraging year for ServicePower, testament to the success of the re-engineering of the business begun in
2 009. ServicePower continues to be a well-managed organisation and our market leading technology enables us to provide
valuable services to some of the world’s leading businesses.
As the market for outsourced service operations continues to grow, so does our market opportunity. We have entered the
current financial year with a strong pipeline of new business, both in the UK and US. We will remain focused in the year ahead
on our areas of strength and look forward to the capitalising on these opportunities.
Lindsay Bury, Chairman Mark Duffin, CEO
24 March 2011
5  
2 
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 
 
Overview 
 
 
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 January 2010, showed a notable increase in revenue, with sales of £7.2m 
compared to £2.4m for the 10 months ended 31 January 2009. Despite this growth, pre tax losses also increased to 
£3.1m, which was influenced by the fact that the Company integrated a number of acquisitions during the period.  
The adjusted earn ings before amortisation, interest and tax  for the year showed a loss of £1.7m (2009: £0.04m).  I 
am delighted to state the integration issues have now been addressed and the Group is trading in line with 
management expectations on a monthly basis. 
 
Our disciplined management enabled us to take advantage of the extraordinary market conditions, ensuring that 
despite the economic downturn, we have positioned the business well for robust future growth. This was achieved by 
positioning Avisen as a niche provider of software supported solutions, in areas such as cost-to-serve and profitability 
management.  We have focussed on gaining closer relationships with our clients in order to increase levels of 
customer retention. We also continued to help clients with complex, industry-leading and transformational projects 
such as the Heineken CIL Program, which is core to our product offering.  
 
We have successfully executed our strategy to consolidate the IBM/Cognos software distribu tion channel and 
establish Inca as EMEA’s leading distributor of the Cognos product suite.  This has given the business the increased 
levels of recurring revenue that it needed, significantly diversifing our business risk. 
 
Post Year End 
 
Post year end the Company disposed of Avisen (Pty) Limited SA. This was considered a non-core business and had 
proven difficult to manage as a result of its geographic location. The year-end EBITA loss of £239,000 substantiates 
this and therefore the decision was taken to divest the trading entity, to its existing management. 
 
As announced on 3 March 2010, Avisen acquired Xploite PLC (“Xploite”) on 27 April. Xploite’s main operating 
business is that of Storage Fusion, a Storage Resource Analysis software business.  Avisen believes that Xploite 
offers an excellent strategic fit and synergy potential in the performance management market.  With this transaction, 
Avisen, intends to strengthen its position in the business and technolo gy consultancy sector. 
 
I would like to thank Ian Smith, Anthony Weaver and Michael Frank for their help with the successful acquisition of 
Xploite.  Following the full integration of Xploite into the wider business, Mr. Smith, Mr. Weaver and Mr. Frank have 
left the Company to pursue other interests.  
 
Conclusion and Outlook 
 
The Group has a positive cash balance as at the date of this report and in September 2010 will receive the deferred 
consideration due to it following the sale of the Company’s  Anix division which was announced by Xploite on 26 May 
2009. It is anticipated that this will return £2.15m following a settlement with Affiliated Computer Services.  
 
I am proud of what we have achieved in 2009 and I am excited about the opportunities that lie ahead.  Avisen has 
won  substantial engagements with major blue chip national and international customers and I am confident that we 
will continue to do so.  
 
We remain intently focused on our clients so that we ca n continue to generate value for them, while ensuring that we 
are well-positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities which will in turn generate further shareholder value. 
 
I would like to welcome Mark Battles, who joined as Non-Executive Interim Chairman of Avisen on 26 July 2010.  
Additionally we would like to welcome Claire Milverton who will be taking the permanent role of Chief Financial Officer 
with immediate effect following her appointment as interim Chief Financial Officer in May 2010.    
 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees for their hard work and dedication which enabled us 
to navigate a challenging environment, and strongly position Avisen for the future. 
 
 
 
Marcus Hanke 
Chief Executive Officer 
30 July 2010 
 
 
 
  2 Overview
The year ended 31 March 2010 was one of transformation for UBC. Having
disposed of its Commercial Division at the end of the previous financial year,
the Group has made considerable progress in its  long-term goal to become
a global content and software business. T oday, UBC is providing the mix of
technology and multimedia content which is much in demand in today’s very
changed media marketplace. Our 400 plus customers include some of the
world’s biggest broadcasters and advertisers in Europe and North America.
The rationale for our shift in focus over the last 18 months is becoming ever
more apparent: value in media investment is shifting from distribution
platforms to content. Furthermore, the distinctions between different types
of content have broken down and consumers are increasingly engaging
with media brands across a variety of content delivery platforms. They are
also demanding a richer mix of audio and screen content. Whether it is
behind Rupert Murdoch’s new Times paywall or paid for by advertisers on
the Capital FM website, traditional media owners are converging to supply
the kind of multimedia content that has been talked of for years. 
While media companies h ave long recognised the value of repackaging
content across multiple channels, it has taken the emergence of the
smartphone and tablet computers – portable media devices - to
demonstrate the market’s true potential. Furthermore, not only do these
devices offer physically new distribution channels for content, but the
hundreds of thousands of software applications (“apps”) being
developed for them represent an entirely new and very significant
opportunity for advertisers, especially in the creation of ‘branded content’
rather than traditional spot advertising.
With its combination of content creation, sponsorship and advertising
sales and interactive software skills, UBC is positioned strongly to serve
these rapidly growing and converging markets in ways that have
potential to generate substantial earnings over the coming years.
Content creation
UBC is now a diversified supplier of both audio and video content. Our
traditional base of supply to the BBC has provided a quality  benchmark;
we were named “Independent Radio Production Company of the Y ear”
at the first ever Radio Production Awards in February 2010. However,
in the last 12 months, through acquisitions, we have broadened the base
of our content offering to include television, online video and audio
books. The proportion of our revenues that come from video content
has quadrupled in the last 12 months.
The Group’s radio content runs on every BBC Radio Network and 250
commercial stations. Programmes range from award winning Drama like
Ronald Harwood’s new play ‘An English Tragedy’ starring Derek Jacobi
for BBC Radio 4 to Dale Winton’s Pick Of The Pops on BBC Radio 2 and
entertainment news for Absolute Radio. In the last 12 months, from this
base of strongly recurrent revenues and reputation for quality, UBC has
developed into providing video and interactive content. At first this was
to the BBC, with both multimedia content for BBC Online - to whom
UBC now provides all music reviews -  and television coverage of events
like last year’s Cambridge Folk Festival and the Radio 2 Folk Awards.
UBC expanded its video offerings further in August, through the acquisition
of Radio Lynx (now renamed Lynx Content). This year Lynx has provided
some 61 video productions for use online to clients including Guinness,
Braun, the Hong Kong T ourist board, Land Rover and Nestle. The company
both produces the multimedia content and secures its placement on web
portals on behalf of its clients. Lynx was attractive to UBC as it had also
developed from a radio base; it still today provides radio sponsorship
programmes to clients ranging from Morrisons to HMV and has placed
content on stations in the last year for more than 100 clients.
Lynx Content was purchased for an initial cash consideration of
£1,600,000 and has exceeded our expectations, contributing some
£357 ,000 to our gross profit in the seven months since the acquisition.
In February 2010, the Group acquired, for a cash con sideration of
£85,000, Above The Title, a respected producer of speech content for
a range of broadcasters which has recently diversified successfully into
the growing audio book market. 
Above The Title owns a number of formats and rights including radio and
audio dramatisation rights to Douglas Adams’ classic ‘Hitchhikers Guide
to The Galaxy’ books. Above The Title’s recent highlights for BBC radio
includes ‘Unreliable Evidence’ presented by Clive Anderson for Radio 4,
“On the Blog” for Radio 2 and ‘The Christian O’Connell Solution’ for 5 Live.
Recently, Above The Title has developed a new quiz format for BBC Radio
2 with Alex Lowe and is now producing Christian O’Connell’s “Never Write
off the Germans” as part of the network’s World Cup coverage.
BBC programming now represents 49% of Group revenues, down from
66% in 2009. One of our targets was to reduce our reliance on the BBC
below 50%. We see this trend continuing. UBC’s production businesses
no w represent over 15% of the BBC’s overall outsourced content supply
in radio and online by value. Currently, the BBC only outsources some 8%
of its radio output by hours and only just over 3% of its radio output by
value. This compares to more than 25% in television. 
The BBC Trust is currently conducting a review of the Corporation’s
commitment to programme supply in radio. The recent Liberal Democrat
creative manifesto contained a commitment to pressure the BBC to
behave in radio as it does in television and thereby stimulate the broader
creative community. UBC has been involved in active lobbying this year
around the Trust review and is hopeful of a positive outcome later this year. 
Software & Interactive 
UBC’s 10 year involvement in the supply of broadcast software to media
companies has placed it in an excellent position to capitalise on the rapidly
developing demand from broadcasters for interactive tools to take advantage
of the new devices – especially in the mobile a rena - which are becoming the
media players of the future. From the programme data services on the BBC’s
iPlayer, to text and data software to Sirius XM Satellite Radio in the USA,
UBC’s software products are familiar to broadcasters around the world and
it has an embedded relationship with the industry. 
These software products put UBC at the heart of driving data services. For
example, a key highlight of the year was the launch in November of an
iT unes tagging service with Absolute Radio. The service enables listeners
using iPod Nano players, which have FM radios built in, to “tag” any track
being played and preview and purchase it using the main iT unes software.
UBC intends to use this lead in broadcast software to capitalise on the
emerging market for portable devices that ‘stream’ radio and TV.
Streaming audio has changed the face of the radio industry and is the
fastest growing form of radio consumption in virtually every developed
country. We believe that the same  growth will apply to video consumption
as devices become more sophisticated and bandwidth grows. 
In April, Unique Interactive launched a new advertising medium for radio
stations using the iPhone and purpose-built apps for 45 stations. The first
to launch is TalkSPORT, operated by UTV, whose World Cup focused app
is available in the iTunes store from today. Other stations’ apps will follow
in the next three months with the full network in place by the end of the
year. The purpose-built WiFi apps will allow users to listen to their radio
station wherever they have WiFi or a mobile signal, but importantly will
also provide a wide range of additional features for them to enjoy such as
instant programme reminders, listen again and social network interaction. 
Unique is delivering the apps free to radio clients in return for selling
advertising space within the apps themselves. Revenue from the
advertising, which is being sold by Lynx’s content advertising business,
is being shared bet ween UBC and the station groups. UBC announce
on 7 June that the first client for its radio app network has been secured.
Gambling portal Blue Sq will take all of the available space on the
TalkSPORT app for the duration of the World Cup. 
Summary
The media world is rapidly changing. There is a fundamental shift away
from value placed in distribution channels towards value placed in content
and the ability to monetise that content on a new generation of devices.
UBC is developing its core content and technology skills to take full
advantage of these new opportunities.
Simon Cole
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review Overview
02 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Antofagasta at a Glance
Incorporated in the United Kingdom
Listed on the London Stock Exchange (ANTO.L)
FTSE-100 constituent since March 2004
Level One ADR in United States (ANFGY)
Mining
Antofagasta Minerals S.A. (AMSA) is the corporate centre for the mining division, based in Santiago, Chile. Dur ing 2010 its operations produced 
521,100 tonnes of copper in concentrate (along with gold and silver by-products) and copper cathode as well as 8,800 tonnes of molybdenum in 
concentrate. Production is expected to increase to over 700,000 tonnes in 2011, reﬂecting the commissioning of the new Esperanza mine.  > Page 34
Securing and strengthening the Core Business: Current operations
Transport
The Antofagasta Railway Company plc, founded in 1888, is the main cargo transport system in Chile’s 
Antofagasta Region, with a network of over 900 kilometres in Chile and a controlling interest in the Ferrocarril 
Andino network in Bolivia. It has a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S.A., a power plant under construction 
in Mejillones. > Page 44
Organic and sustainable growth of the Core Business 
> Page 40
>   In the Sierra Gorda District mineral resource estimates were 
completed in respect of the Telégrafo and Caracoles deposits.
>   At Los Pelambres a scoping study is examining th e key factors which 
could allow it to utilise its signiﬁcant resource base in the longer term.
>   Antucoya project feasibility study in progress.
Esperanza 
Esperanza is a sulphide deposit located in Chile’s Antofagasta Region, 
1,350 km north of Santiago. Over its ﬁrst 10 years of operation it is 
expected to produce an average of approximately 190,000 tonnes of 
payable copper in concentrate per year and 230,000 ounces of payable 
gold per year, through a milling and ﬂotation process. > Page 34
Los Pelambres 
Los Pelambres is a sulphide deposit located in Chile’s Coquimbo 
Region, 240 km north-east of Santiago. It produces over 400,000 
tonnes of payable copper in concentrate per year, as well as 
molybdenum concentrate, through a milling and ﬂotation process. 
> Page 26
>   Los Pelambres plant expansion completed during Q1 2010,  
increasing throughput by approximately 30%.
>   Esperanza made its ﬁrst shipment of copper concentrate in 
January 2011, following the  start of commissioning of the plant 
in November 2010.  Chief Executive’s Review  
 
ARCONTECH GROUP PLC    
2
This year has been one of mixed fortunes. It was disappointing in terms of bottom-line financial performance 
yet with considerable progress on product development and some notable successes, particularly in international 
territories and larger accounts. 
 
Overall market conditions have shown signs of improvement but mergers and acquisitions in the investment 
banking world have reduced the number of target organisations and delayed new initiatives during 
consolidation. 
 
The main themes of the year have been: 
• ongoing implementation and support of recent, larger global contracts; 
• increased focus on the major international investment banks; 
• a cycle of new development based on evaluation and feedback from clients and prospects;  
• restructuring and expanding resource, particularly sales, pre-sales and post-sales support. 
 
In the first half of the year  we secured contracts for our CityVision contributions and distribution software in 
excess of £1.7 million over three years. These included a number of positions for our Excelerator real-time 
desktop product and for our development tools, supporting custom integration of CityVision with client’s core 
systems.  New revenues in the second half were disappointing considering the number of evaluations underway. 
However, the weighted value of contracts currently under consideration is at a record level. 
 
The change from a license sale model to a license rental model has held back revenue and profit in the short 
term but has longer term benefit from the increased recurring revenue base. 
 
This year recurring revenue has risen by 59% from £678,009 to £1,081,668. Had all new contracts gained during 
the year been traditional license sales, the reported revenue would have been higher and the losses 
correspondingly lower. 
  
Sales this year have brought new installations in Denmark , Dubai, Hong Kong, London, New York and 
Singapore.  This has increased our experience of different operating environments and commercial processes 
and we are better equipped to expedite future deals. 
 
Our message of “data vendor independent technology” is gaining traction with many major banks and several 
evaluations are well advanced.  The closer involvement has lead to highly constructive feedback leading to a 
strengthened product set to address new opportunities and specific customer requirements. 
 
Global support has been strengthened with a 24x7 help-desk and support personnel stationed in strategic 
regions, including the Far East, where we have made good progress. 
 
The AXE brokerage suite for on-line and telephone trading has continued to mature, with initiatives underway 
to address speed and scalability as user numbers expand. 
 
Overall, while sales progress is slower than we had hoped, I believe the foundations have been laid to support 
improved results next y ear. I would like to thank staff, clients and prospects for their help and support and look 
forward to working with them towards the success that we believe is possible in the coming year. 
 
Andrew Miller 
Chief Executive 
 
23 July 2010  2 Report and Accounts 2010
Business overview
The Group made solid progress during the year as revenues grew positively across all of its 
lines of business.  The first two Optim units were shipped and installed which contributed to 
the 35% advancement of revenues in the Group’s analytical business, Avacta Analytical, 
aimed at the biopharmaceutical drug development sector to £0.50m (2009: £0.37m).  
After a programme of detailed testing, the AX-1, the diagnostic device aimed at delivering 
rapid test results at the point of care in both the veterinary and human health sectors, was 
launched on 23 November 2010 as part of a City analyst’s presentation.  Revenues from 
the Group’s veterinary diagnostics business, Avacta Animal Health, grew in  its first full year as 
part of the Group by 114% to £1.22m (2009: £0.57m).  In addition, following the completion 
of its strategic research alliance with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited in the area 
of major depression, the Group achieved revenues of £0.35m (2009: £Nil) from contract 
services in its human health business, Curidium, and is looking to exploit the opportunity 
further.
Avacta Analytical  
Although well received technically, challenging economic conditions placed severe 
constraints on our customers’ capital equipment budgets and Optim sales fell short of 
our target in its first year.  During the financial year, four orders were taken and two units 
installed. An increase in momentum of the sales process is now clearly being seen as sales 
leads in the US build and distributors are appointed. The manifestation of this is a growing 
number of customer samples arriving for technical validation which is a critical step in the 
sales process. Such is the deman d for validation that our in-house Optim resources have 
become stretched although a recent move of our production group to larger facilities 
increases capacity and enables us to deal with the forecast demand for Optim and the 
upcoming manufacture of other products. 
On 6 September 2010, we appointed Isogen Life Science as European distributor which 
has already resulted in a placed order.  As to other territories, we are in discussions with 
distribution partners and we are well advanced with a major global partner for the important 
US market. We have taken a further Optim order and shipped another unit during the first 
quarter of the current year and several successful exhibitions in the US and Europe has 
generated a number of validated sales leads.
As part of our US initiative, we have agreed to place Optim units into two prestigious 
biopharmaceutical research laboratories at the Universities of Kansas and Colorado.  
Both have extensive commercial interaction and are highly i nfluential within the US 
biopharmaceutical sector.  This move takes the number of Optim orders placed so far to 
eight.  Those units placed in the two universities will be applied to commercial projects and 
to training scientists from US biopharmaceutical companies and will rapidly raise the profile 
of Optim and as such will be highly valuable assets generating sales leads and reference 
cases for Optim in the US market.
Analytical services revenues grew by 14% to £0.42m (2009: £0.37m) and we are in discussions 
with distributor/service partners for the Japanese and US markets to be followed by partners 
in other territories to further drive revenues to a substantial level.
Avacta Animal Health
As mentioned above, the AX-1 point of care diagnostic device, was launched on 23 
November 2010. Final details of scaled up manufacturing are being finalised prior to the 
product shipping early in 2011.
Diagnostic testing services revenues grew by 114% to £1.22m (2009: £0.57m) with its f irst full 
year contribution to the Group.  Despite a difficult economic climate and poor footfall into 
veterinary practises during the protracted adverse winter conditions, underlying year-on-
year growth was 2%.  
The acquisition of Reactivlab into the Animal Health business has been very successful.  The 
first Reactivlab product – a test kit for the acute phase protein haptoglobin in dogs and 
cats which has broad utility in detecting infections and inflammation - has been brought 
through development to full validation.  The second complementary acute phase protein 
test kit for dogs is nearing completion. Importantly, we have identified, and are now working 
closely with, a substantial partner which is expected to provide a global route to market for 
these and other new products.
Chairman’s and Chief Executive Officer’s Report  Avacta Group plc 3 4 Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman’s and Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued  Avacta Group plc 5
Curidium Human Hea lth
Curidium entered into a major research project with Takeda Pharmaceutical Company 
during late 2007 (prior to acquisition by the Group) following a strategic investment by 
Takeda’s venture arm, Takeda Research Investment, Inc with the aim of tailoring drug 
treatments for people with depression.  Depression is a leading cause of disability worldwide 
affecting around 15% of the population in developed countries.  Major depressive disorder 
is one of the most prevalent psychiatric illnesses and only 25 - 40% of patients achieve 
clinical remission with currently available antidepressants.  Consequently, by identifying 
biomarkers for subpopulations of patients with depression, the project was designed to 
provide information that could lead to tailored drug treatments for specific individuals and 
improve patient outcomes.
On 14 October 2010, we announced that the research project had been completed 
and contributed revenues of £0.35m.  The discovery of patient subgroups is a va lidation of 
Homomatrix®, Curidium’s proprietary clinical data analysis tool, which will support our efforts 
to expand its activities and revenue generation in this rapidly growing area of personalised 
medicine.
Financial overview
Revenues grew 120% to £2.07m (2009: £0.94m).  This included £1.22m (2009: £0.57m) from 
Avacta Animal Health and £0.50m from Avacta Analytical (2009: £0.37m) assisted by the 
contribution of the first two Optim installations. The additional revenues contributed positively 
to the continued investment in product development and the underlying operating loss 
reduced as a result to £1.53m (2009: £1.81m). Reported operating loss was reduced 
to £2.03m (2009: £2.86m) with non-recurring administrative expenses, amortisation of 
intangible assets and share based payment charges reducing to £0.50m (2009: £1.05m).
Development expenditure capitalised during the year was £1.04m (2009: £0.16m).
The Group reported cash balances of £1.43m (2009: £0.88 m) following its fund raise during 
July 2010 when it raised £1.38m at a price of 1.0p per share.  The Group also raised £2.0m 
during Autumn 2009 at a price of 1.5p per share.
Loss per share reduced to 0.15p (2009: 0.28p).
Outlook
Avacta is now poised to transition from three years of intense product development to 
the commercialisation of its innovative products that the Directors believe will drive future 
revenue growth and profits. 
The harsh economic climate of the past year has slowed early sales progress of Optim 
which is, of course, disappointing, but the value proposition of the product is very strong 
and clearly recognised by customers. Commercial progress is now gathering momentum 
through our own sales efforts and through the recent appointment of Isogen as a distribution 
partner in Europe.  We have begun to address the US market, which is the largest market 
for Optim, and there has been considerable interest from both customers and potential 
distribution partners  alike.  We hope to update the market shortly on the appointment of a 
major distribution partner in the US. 
The AX-1, our first point of care diagnostic tool was launched on 23 November 2010. We 
are finalising the scaled up manufacturing process and we will shortly be starting on a 
programme to develop a menu of tests, each with a unique consumable cartridge aimed 
at driving recurring revenues.  Additionally, I am pleased to be able to report that the 
integration of Reactivlab into Avacta has proceeded as we now finalise new diagnostic 
test kits based on Reactivlab’s intellectual property with a global commercial partner which 
plans to take these to market next year.
It’s going to be a very exciting year for Avacta with good opportunities for growth across the 
Group’s activities and we look forward to reporting on this progress as it unfolds.
Gwyn Humphreys 
Chairman
 
Alastair Smith 
Chief Executive Officer
17 December 2010 02
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Gro up Plc Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s strategic review
From Peter Ventress
Defining  
the next phase  
of progress. 
We have embarked on the initial stages of an important 
journey for the group. During 2010, we completed our 
strategic review, and are now assessing the next steps and 
implementing them across the business. We are making good 
progress and 2011 will be a year of transition. The full impact 
of the review will become clearer over the coming months as 
the new strategy is fully embedded. I look forward to updating 
you on the implementation of the strategic actions as the 
programme unfolds. 03
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors
The year saw the group undertake  
a comprehensive strategic review.  
Our aim is to build on our proven 
strengths and to position the company 
as the leading provider of textile 
services in our chosen markets. The 
review covered all business segments 
and geographies, and focused on  
our competing positi ons, operational 
efficiency, capital deployment  
and growth opportunities. As a result  
we have now defined a number of  
key outcomes, objectives and actions.
An important development of the 
strategy is the active portfolio 
management of our businesses into  
two categories of core growth and 
manage for value. We will direct our 
capital investment towards the core 
growth businesses and the latter  
will attract less investment and we  
will focus on strong cash generation.  
As part of our change in priorities  
for the manage for value businesses  
we will manage all our Scandinavian  
flat linen businesses together under  
a new structure and we have initiated  
a restructuring in Ireland. Our Swedish 
direct sales business, Björnkläder was 
included in this category but we were 
pleased to announce in December 2010 
that we sold the business.
The review was completed in November 
2010, so the coming 12 months will  
be a period of transition as we move 
towards fully emb edding the strategy. 
An important step in moving forward  
as one company is the renaming  
of the company as Berendsen plc.  
We effected the change of name on the 
4th January 2011. We have agreed our 
senior management structures in 
preparation for the realignment of the 
organisation later in the year. To support 
the operating divisions in proactive 
portfolio management we have appointed 
a Business Development Director.
Our business
Our business is focused on textile 
maintenance. We provide service 
solutions to source, clean and maintain 
the textiles that our customers need  
to keep their operations running, but 
which may be non-core to their activities. 
We allow them to free up-capital  
and resources while we leverage our 
buying power, logistics systems and  
our considerable know-how to provide  
a more cost effective service than their 
in-house solution.  
We acquire and own the textiles and 
provide these to our customers on 
service contracts of varying length s.
Our marketplace 
The European market for textile rental 
services is estimated at €10.5 billion  
per year. 
The Berendsen plc group employs more 
than 16,100 employees across 15 countries. 
The companies operate under the 
Berendsen brand in continental Europe 
and under the Sunlight brand in the UK. 
Berendsen employs over 6,800 
employees at 79 service centres  
in 13 countries. Berendsen is a market 
leader in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. 
We have a leading position in the 
workwear and industrial-wipers market 
in the Netherlands, a strong position in 
the German hospital and nursing home 
market and are targeting an increase  
of market share in workwear in Germany. 
We have established operations in  
the emerging markets of Poland, Latvia, 
Lithuania, Estonia and the Czech Republic.
Berendsen’s Sunlight business is the 
UK’s leading supplier of textile rental 
and laundering services and a major 
provider of clinical products and services 
to the healthcare industry in  the UK  
and overseas. The company operates 
through three main divisions with almost 
9,300 employees at over 53 service 
centres. Sunlight Textile Services 
provides textile rental and laundering 
services from a UK network of over 
50 locations (mainly to the hotel and 
hospitality industry, manufacturing  
and the NHS). Sunlight Clinical Solutions 
provides a range of products and 
services for clinical applications in the 
UK. Sunlight Direct Sales supplies linen 
and soft furnishings to the hotel and 
contract accommodation sectors. 
Sunlight also operates in Ireland through 
our Spring Grove Services subsidiary, 
providing textile rental, laundering  
and clinical services.
Outcome and objectives 
Our strategy builds on the group’s 
well-invested capital base and strong 
market position. Through a greater 
focus on our core, higher margin and 
higher growth businesses and by 
improving sales processes, we intend 
to grow revenue at 1%–2% above  
GDP and grow underlying e arnings  
and EPS in high single-digits over the 
medium term.
We see growth opportunities in 
expanding our customer base, primarily 
through converting to rental those 
businesses which have yet to adopt 
the full service rental model.
Greater focus will be applied to 
improving return on invested capital 
and the group is targeting to deliver  
a post-tax return in double-digits  
over the same medium-term period.  
We are also targeting cash conversion 
of at least 100%.
As well as capturing improved organic 
growth, there is scope for continued 
growth through bolt-on acquisitions and 
to play an active role in the consolidation 
of the industry.
Medium-term growth 
objectives
 , Realise full potential in areas  
of existing core competence  
within existing markets
 , Sustain organic revenue growth  
rates of GDP +1%–2% pa
 , Achieve underlying EPS growth  
in high single-digit
 , Cash conversion target of  
at least 100% and post-tax ROIC  
in double-digits
 , Seek expansi on into new higher 
growth markets
 , Pursue progressive dividend policy 
Strategic actions 
In order to meet our strategic objectives 
we have a number of key actions  
at both group and operational levels, 
these are described in detail over the 
following pages.
08
,
Read more on our group  
strategic objectives and key 
performance indicators  04
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s strategic review (continued)
Key actions – group
Six key actions will underpin our strategy  
at group level, enabling the actions 
within each operating division to deliver 
on their potential.
Group action:
 Focus on sales effectiveness
We will strive to improve sales effectiveness. Although each business line has 
specific requirements, all will benefit from enhanced sales processes and support.  
Specifically, we will build sales, marketing and commercial management competence  
and improve the degree of consistency in training and sales m anagement.  
This action will see a redeployment of resources, rather than investment in new 
resources, and will be championed by Christian Ellegaard at executive board level.
Further improving customer  
retention levels
We recognise the importance 
of customer service in retaining 
customers but also broadening 
our service points to extend the 
value of the contract.
Group action:
 Move to business line structure
The group will also adopt a new business line structure, with executive board 
members taking responsibility for core business lines rather than geographical 
divisions. Within this new structure, the key growth areas identified are workwear 
and facilities including mats, washroom and cleanroom. In the UK, the hotel and 
healthcare linen businesses also offer attractive growth opportunities. In other 
areas, the group’s existing well-invested businesses will be managed with lower 
expectations of growth and consequently these areas will attract lower investment 
and g enerate higher free cash flow. At plant level, the business remains essentially 
local and we will continue to drive accountability down to this level.
We have a carefully prepared programme to manage the implementation  
of these changes through 2011 and expect to be reporting fully under the new 
business line structure from the beginning of 2012. This structure will be more 
transparent to all stakeholders, will enable us to identify and concentrate on growth 
opportunities more easily and will allow us to drive best practice in the key areas 
of sales, operations, logistics and pricing. 
Local plant accountability
We will continue to manage  
at a local plant level which will 
minimise the impact of the 
change to business line structure. 05
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors
Anticipated financial 
implications of group actions
Implementing the new strategy will 
necessitate modest investment, particularly 
in a change management programme. 
As we focus on ma naging our core growth 
areas, cash costs are expected to be  
in the range of £5 million to £10 million.
The anticipated benefits are likely  
to outweigh these costs by a significant 
margin. Improved capital efficiency  
is expected to result in cash conversion 
of at least 100%. Our capital structure 
remains sound. Berendsen plc 
is an inherently cash-generative 
business, the majority of our financing 
requirements are available beyond  
2016 at fixed rates of below 5% and  
we will continue to operate well within 
our financial covenants.
In terms of our financial reporting,  
this year we have reported on existing 
regional segments. In our 2011 full  
year accounts, we will report for  
both regional and business line and  
in 2012 we will move to full business  
line reporting.
Group action:
 Actively manage our portfolio
The implementation of our strategy will see active portfolio management in  
two key areas. We will direct our capital towards our core growth lines of bu siness: 
workwear; facilities including mats; washroom; cleanroom; UK healthcare; and 
UK hotels. At the same time, we will manage the following businesses in a different 
manner to improve their value to the group: hotels outside the UK; healthcare 
outside the UK; and clinical solutions and decontamination.
Group action:
 Develop our expansion/consolidation strategies
We believe there are opportunities for continued growth through bolt-on 
acquisitions and for Berendsen plc to play an active role in the consolidation  
of the industry. We will also look to grow in new developing countries  
as appropriate.
10
,
Read more about how we are  
managing our portfolio 
Group action:
 Review capital efficiency
We are conducting a group-wide review of capital efficiency following  
a structured programme with the help of specialist consultants. We are close  
to completing the diagnostic phase and good benefits have already been identified 
and we anticipate implementing the benefits across  the group in the medium 
term. The objective is to improve the cash generated from the business to help 
support growth opportunities improve the return on investment capital to double 
digits. Our five year cash conversion is within the range of 80%–115%, and we 
are targeting at least 100%.
2008 7.4
2009 7.1
2010 7.4
Return on invested capital
(post tax) %
Group action:
 Rename Davis as Berendsen plc
To promote a one company vision both internally and externally, to align the 
group more closely with its main operating brand and to capitalise on the 
benefits of shared knowledge and experience, we have changed the group 
name to Berendsen plc from The Davis Service Group Plc. However, our local 
brands, such as Sunlight in the UK, will be retained as they continue to have 
strong market recognition.
On 4th January we changed  
our name to Berendsen plc. 06
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive’s strategic review (continued) 
Within 15 months
Group
 Name change
Group-wide capital efficiency review
 Realignment of organisation and management in place
Operating divisions
Building of sales and business development capabilities
 Remuneration systems tied to strategic targets and  
appropriately rewarding different levels of achievement
 Clear examples of faster execution and delivery  
of results
 Changed priorities in ‘manage for value’ businesses
 Improved capital efficiency showing through in cash flow
Key actions –  
operating divisions
Four key actions will provide momentum 
for our six core growth areas.
Operating divisions action:
 Accelerate top line growth in core business lines
We aim to grow our group revenues 1%–2% above GDP. To do this we will focus  
on enhancing our sales, customer service and commercial management tools, 
processes and training across the core growth areas. We will reallocate our 
resources appropriately to achieve this.
Sales machine manual
For each of our products and  
customer solutions, we have 
a sales machine manual that 
enables the sales person to 
identify customer needs and 
develop the right solution  
for them.
Operating divisions action:
 Leverage operational efficiency and widen application of best practice
Although we manage our operations efficiently, we know that we can  
leverage further efficiencies from the sharing of best practice expertise,  
through standardisation of processes as well as sharing of resources. We will 
focus on production, textile management and logistics to ensure that we 
continue our drive for improved efficiency.
Championed at  
executive board level
The operational efficiency will be 
championed by Peter Havéus at 
executive board level. There are 
further opportunities to improve 
our procurement activities and 
deliver greater efficiencies. This 
will be championed by Steve 
Finch at executive board level.
Implementation of our key actions
Although the strategic review and preparation  
for rollout wa s conducted throughout much of 2010,  
it was not completed until November, shortly before 
the year end. Although we have identified a series  
of implementation milestones, it is important to view 
these in context: we are making good progress  
in the first stages of implementation.
The implementation will be facilitated by  
a comprehensive change management programme 
that will focus on four key areas:
 , Managing the pace and timing of change 
 , Using the building blocks already in place – for 
example, local plant accountability remains unchanged
 , Refocusing our existing resources and leadership
 , Exploiting our strong experience in managing 
change at senior level and through the operations
Complete In progress To be started 07
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors
Operating divisions action:
 Improve cash deliveries
The business is cash generative but we will put in place initiatives to further 
enhance the cash delivery of the group. The group wide c apital review will 
identify opportunities to tighten working capital as well as the management  
of textiles. The group sourcing programme will strengthen our buying power 
with further opportunities of cash savings.
Operating divisions action:
 Support from shared services
We will optimise our shared service support functions across the group to deliver 
the right level of back office and administrative support. This will allow the business 
to focus on delivering the strategic priorities. Over the longer term we would 
expect to improve efficiencies with a cost benefit.
 
Sharing best practice
As well as providing effective 
back office support, we also 
include central product 
management and development 
as a key shared service function. 
The roll-out of our Hygiene 
washroom range in 2009 is a 
good example of this.
Group
Pool of strong management across the group  
with identified senior succession
Operating divisions
Clear leader in European Textile Services with  
a targeted f ootprint outside Europe
Sales growth momentum at sustainable returns
High performance sales organisation supported  
by strong operational base
36+ months
Group
More integrated group with strong interaction 
between constituents 
First businesses established in new  
developing countries
Operating divisions
 Market leadership in core business areas  
in key European markets 
Organic growth of GDP +1%-2% pa
 Underlying EPS growth: targeting high  
single-digit % growth
  ROIC achieving double-digits (post-tax)
15-36 months
11
,
Meet the team responsible for 
planning and managing change 
Working with our customers
For many of our smaller customers, 
we are able to ease their burden 
of frequent invoicing by billing for 
longer periods in advance. This also 
helps us improve our cash profile. 2 bglobal plc annual report an D fI nanc Ial s tate Ments 2010
the group has successfully passed key milestones during the year 
and trading performance has improved substantially. r evenue for 
th e year to 31 March 2010 increased by 99.3% to £13.23 million 
(2009: £6.64 million), major customer contracts have been won and 
operational performance has improved leading to a monthly 
doubling of the number of meters installed whilst simultaneously 
reducing costs. the operating loss of £0.59 million is slightly better 
than market forecast and whilst not quite at breakeven, represents 
significant improvement on the previous year’s loss of £4.1 million.
Review of operations
our significant growth this year has been delivered despite a  
bleak national economic background. smart metering has the 
support of the new government and the uK’s energy suppliers, 
although slow to react to smart metering so far, are beginning  
to execute smart metering “business as usual” strategies in  
the industrial and commercial market and to formulate future 
residential strategies, driven by strengthening customer demand 
and the low carbon agenda.
an early challenge in the year for th e group was to provide certainty 
over sources of meter asset finance which enables us to fund our 
end-to-end smart meter service for energy supply customers that 
do not wish to directly purchase the assets. a s announced on 3 July 
2009, the group secured a facility of up to £15 million from barclays 
asset & sales f inance alongside the existing facility provided by 
Macquarie bank of australia.
Despite the uncertainty of finance in the first quarter, our 
performance in the first six months of the year was strong, 
increasing by 116% on the same period in the previous year to £5.82 
million. the group’s performance in the second half of the year 
strengthened even further delivering £7.41 million in revenue 
despite being interrupted by unprecedented weather conditions in 
December and January.
our order book is largely committed for the year ahead and we are 
now focusing on building orders for f Y2012. It is vital to work in 
closer partnership with our customers to ensure  an orderly and 
planned delivery of installations. amongst the key challenges is how 
the group sensibly builds its capability to match confirmed orders 
and how it recruits, trains and mobilises an extensive field force in 
balance with this demand without over or under resourcing. this 
challenge of gearing capability to demand should not be 
underestimated, nor should risks posed by short-term events on 
logistics such as prolonged poor weather which can affect 
operations. globally the demand for smart meter hardware is 
increasing and whilst the group mitigates and manages risk for 
customers through its extensive relationships and order book, the 
likelihood of future supply chain bottle necks could mean that 
customers who do not advance their strategies for installations 
quickly may be left behind.
the experience of the past year tells us that the majority of energy 
suppliers are only beginning to address the strategic and structural 
change required in their business operati ons to support smart 
metering programmes, despite the clear political and customer 
drivers. However, we firmly believe that this financial year will be the 
defining year for development of smart meter strategy by uK 
energy suppliers and that government plans for the mass 
residential roll out of smart meters in the uK will be clearly defined.
Settlement metering operations
In early June this year, the group installed its 100,000th business 
meter and is now responsible for settling nearly 1.5% of total uK 
electricity consumption annually. this is the equivalent consumption 
of approximately one million homes every day. During the year the 
group billed 40,326 new meter installations representing a 76.4% 
increase on the previous year (f Y09: 22,856 meters). Key business 
targets were achieved in september 2009 with the installation of 
4,000 meters per month and again in March 2010 with a further 
step change to 5,000 meters per month.
the group has worked with its f ar eastern su ppliers to improve the 
robustness of its supply chain and, by the end of the financial year, 
had achieved a key aim of moving substantial amounts of meter 
shipments to sea freight in preference to air freight, cutting costs 
whilst at the same time increasing physical supply. administrative 
expenses were reduced by 12% to £4.95 million (2009: £5.63 million) 
throughout the group, whilst recognising the need to retain a 
strong operational capability in order to maintain competitive 
advantage for the longer term.
partnerships have been developed with several third parties to 
install meters on our behalf. Whilst these third parties have been 
slower than expected to deliver both trained staff and meet with 
expected performance levels, the group has benefited through 
greater flexibility in its field operations and continues to grow this 
capability. our consistent focus on improving meter operations, 
settlement data performance and customer service was an 
important factor in p ersuading four new electricity suppliers who 
entered the uK market during the year (gazprom, Dual energy 
Direct, Ma energy and bes e lectricity) to choose bglobal as their 
smart metering partner.
Services revenues
Data services and other recurring revenue streams increased by 
133% to £2.26 million (2009: £0.97 million). process and technology 
improvements made by our data service and It teams have greatly 
improved daily meter reading performance, which is consistently 
reported by many of our customers to be amongst the best in the 
industry. r ecurring and other service revenue accounted for 17% of 
total revenue and continues to increase monthly in line with 
installations.
Direct customer sales
During the year the group won 45 new direct contracts with 
customers including transport for l ondon, aviva, eversheds llp , 
cap gemini, l and securities, greater Manchester police, Dorset f ire 
brigade, JD sports and Manchester Metropolitan university. In 
response to increasing d irect customer demand the group has 
strengthened its sales capability and has developed a network of 
national account managers.
Technology and capability developments
bglobal continues to advance its technical capability as well as its 
operations. on 14 april 2010, the company announced that it had 
gained regulatory approvals for the smart1, a new electricity meter 
that bglobal has designed and developed. the smart1 is a full 
specification, communications agnostic, Zigbee-enabled smart 
meter designed to meet the needs of uK energy suppliers servicing 
mass residential and sMe business markets. the group is now 
working to complete field trials which will lead to its ability to roll 
out the meter widely in its customer base.
as announced on 5 May 2010, the group has been accredited by 
elexon to operate as a Half Hourly Data collector and Half Hourly 
Data aggregator. this development will enable bglobal to deliver a 
comprehensive package of Half-Hourly and non Half-Hourly 
met ering and data services to business customers. It is anticipated 
that bglobal will begin providing Half Hourly services in the third 
quarter of the current financial year.
Acquisitions, outlook and current trading
the group’s metering business has built a strong order book for the 
current year in both energy supply and direct customer orders. our 
focus is now on the challenge of delivery and ensuring we can fulfil 
customer expectations. the current economic climate has 
significantly increased demand for debt management services from 
energy suppliers. an increase in debt disconnection requests, whilst 
generating service revenues for the group, can adversely impact 
the number of new meters fitted on a daily basis. However, the 
average daily run rate for meter installations was strong at 227 per 
day during the first quarter of the current financial year. t he group 
also passed the important 100,000 meter milestone in early June. 
chief executive’s statement 3 bglobal plc a nnual report an D fI nanc Ial s tate Ments 2010
this substantial installed base of meters and the continuing growth 
in installations means that the group’s recurring data services 
revenue streams continue to strengthen. Having delivered nearly 
100% revenue growth in the past year, our growth target again 
remains high for the year ahead.
our acquisition of utiligroup l imited was completed on 21 June 
2010, and I am delighted to report that the business has made 
excellent progress on new contracts during this financial year. 
utiligroup has secured new business with major clients such as eDf 
energy, gDf s uez, and Western power Distribution, representing 
different facets of its target markets.
With our increasing portfolio of business sector meters under 
management, the continued rise in installations over the coming 
year and new opportunities brought by the utiligroup acquisition, 
the board is confident that bglobal can deliver further growth in 
the year ahead and that we  will see ongoing improvement in the 
group’s trading performance.
Tony Barnes
chief executive officer  3
CEO’s Report 
 
Dear Investor, 
 
I am pleased to report another exceptional performance this year.  While the full year ﬁnancial results were excellent, our second 
half was nothing short of transformational as the business moved into EBITDA positive territory, ahead of expectations.  
 
Over the past 12 months, blinkx consistently demonstrated robust growth, defying macro industry trends.  We increased revenue 
by more than 140%, and gross proﬁt by 123%, despite the challenging economic environment.  Furthermore, revenue and gross 
proﬁt in the second half grew almost 60% over the ﬁrst half, while operating expenses dropped in the second half as compared to 
the ﬁrst.  As a result, operating margin improved, net losses narrowed and the company was proﬁtable on an EBITDA basis in the 
second half.  Despite the downturn, we achieved these milestones ahead of schedule  and analyst expectations.  This remarkable 
accomplishment was driven by the success of our unique advertising platform, which delivers targeted, ROI-guaranteed, brand 
advertising in online video, and has enjoyed widespread adoption by over 800 global brands. 
 
Fiscal Year 2010 achievements include: 
 
» Results ahead of analyst consensus on all key metrics including top line revenue and gross proﬁt  
» For the year: 
» Revenue increased over 140% from FY2009 to $33.7m 
» Gross proﬁt up 123% to $21.9m from FY2009 
» DSO improved to 65 days from 83 days for FY2009 
» For the second half of 2010:  
» EBITDA of $0.03m, compared with LBITDA of $5.85m in ﬁrst half  
» Revenue of $20.6m, a 57% increase from the ﬁrst half 
» Gross proﬁt of $13.4m, a 58% increase from the ﬁrst half 
» Cash used by operating activities of $2.5m, compared with $8.1m in ﬁrst half 
» Video streams in the UK and US grew by 186% (comScore) 
» Daily Video Search run rate increased over 16 9% to 22.6 million searches per day in March 2010, from 8.4 million per day in 
March 2009  
» Repeat campaign bookings grew by 193% compared to FY2009 in addition to strong increase of 112% in brands advertising 
with blinkx 
» New, expanded distribution agreements with top partners, including Ask, ITN and ELO 
» Successful beta launch of Cheep, blinkx’s ﬁrst transaction hijacking product 
 
Since my last report, blinkx’s trafﬁc has surged 204% in the UK, making us the second fastest growing video site after Facebook, 
according to comScore. Moreover, the number of videos viewed over the Internet in the UK has shot up 37% over the same time 
period. This powerful groundswell towards online video underscores the strength and vitality of our business model.  
 
blinkx’s aggressive audience growth, breaking into both comScore and Nielsen’s Top 10 Video Sites, combined with our top-tier 
content partnerships, has enabled our business to ﬂourish over the period, and we ach ieved a 112% increase in the number of 
brands advertising with us. We continued to attract leading brand advertisers, including Coca Cola, Virgin and Toyota, while 
maintaining consistently high CPMs (Cost Per Mille), through the effectiveness of our unique Contextual Advertising platform, 
blinkx AdHoc.  Online video is the fastest growing sector in advertising, and we expect to further accelerate the growth of our 
business based on this momentum. 
 
In addition, blinkx made signiﬁcant progress on the product and business development fronts during the period. The strength of 
our technology has enabled us to forge new distribution deals with many of our top partners, including providing video search for 
Ask.com, powering advertising for the ITN Premium News Network, and building a broadband TV offering for Brazilian media 
giant ELO.  We also recently partnered with Mobica to bring blinkx video channels to mobile devices. 
 
In conclusion: since our IPO, the blinkx team has built  strong foundations for the business; a portfolio of consumer products, the 
AdHoc advertising platform, and our network of over 720 content partners and top-tier distribution partners. As a result, while we 
remain mindful of the macroeconomic environment, we see 2010 as a year of tremendous promise, because blinkx is now well 
positioned in one of the fastest growing segments of the media sector.  Having reached proﬁtability on an EBITDA basis and after 
making infrastructure investments early in the year, the business is now positioned to capitalise on this market momentum and 
drive increased proﬁtability from growing revenue. 
 
Suranga Chandratillake
CEO and Founder 
blinkx 
29 July 2010
  Coolabi has continued to make good progress in the period under review, with EBITDA (our key measure of financial performance) up
164%. I am particularly pleased that we are also today reporting the group’s first Profit after tax.
Strategy
Our strategy is to build a diversified portfolio  of cash-generative intellectual property (“IP”) assets that have international appeal across a
broad range of media platforms. Accordingly, our current portfolio of assets is diversified in terms of both genre and media of exploitation,
and maturity – from established properties to those in their infancy and others in development.
This strategy is gradually building a stream of highly visible and consistent revenue, which is underwritten by financial guarantees from
our licensees. We believe that this will make Coolabi increasingly attractive to investors.
Review of the Period
The group has again concentrated on driving good organic growth from its assets, some of which we have acquired and enhanced and
some of which we have developed internally.
It remains the case that retailers and consumers are often drawn to established, classic IP assets (like Bagpuss or Purple Ronnie) during
difficult financial times. This was perfectly demonstrated by the success of Bagpuss over the Chris tmas period. Bagpuss soft toys were listed
as the top-selling items at Past Times for Christmas and The Daily Mail reported that Bagpuss was the No. 1 selling retro toy for Christmas
2010. However, a growing proportion of Coolabi’s growth is forecast to come from the development and exploitation of new IP assets.
I am, therefore, particularly pleased to be able to report that 2010 is the first year in which one of our internally developed assets, Poppy
Cat, has made a material financial contribution to the group and that the early momentum shown by Poppy Cat has demonstrated our
ability to launch successfully a new IP asset in this challenging trading environment. I am very excited by the potential of Poppy Cat and
expect its financial contribution to continue to build into 2011 and beyond.
This again shows what this team can achieve, even in this most difficult of markets, by combining quality IP with the right strategy
and execution.
The activity across our portfolio and the stage  of development of our IP assets can be summarised as follows:
i) Poppy Cat
Internationally successful pre-school favourite based on the hugely popular book series (over 2.5 million books sold to date) by Lara Jones.
Coolabi owns the copyright in the TV series with its co-production partner and therefore will benefit directly from the ancillary exploitation
derived from the series.
Our 52 x 11 minute animated TV series for pre-school viewers has been co-produced with King Rollo Films, our established
award-winning partner.
Poppy Cat was introduced to the licensing and merchandising community at a dedicated event in September 2010 and to a wider
audience shortly afterwards at Brand Licensing Show. International TV sales activity commenced in October 2010. We have been
delighted with the response to the series.
Broadcast
Commissioned by Nickelodeon Jr. in the UK and due to air first in May, the series has been sold to a further 16 territories internationally
so far – all before its firs t episode has been broadcast.
With this in mind, I am thrilled to be able to add to that number today, in announcing that the series has secured a tier one broadcast
partner in the US with Sprout. Sprout, a 24-hour pre-school channel available on air, on demand and online, is a partnership
between NBC Universal and PBS, amongst others, and currently broadcasts to over 50 million homes in the US. This announcement
represents a major coup for Coolabi and the platform that Sprout affords us opens up this all important territory for licensing and
merchandising activity.
Negotiations are also ongoing in a number of other significant broadcast markets which I hope to be able to announce in due course.
3
COOLABI PLC
Chief Executive’s Review Licensing & Merchandising
We are making good progress with the initial phase of our licensing and merchandising sales programme, starting first with our home
market, the UK. On 26 January, we announced that we had signed our first four licensing deals fo r Poppy Cat, with Macmillan for TV tie-in
books, Aykroyd and TDP Licensing Ltd for character nightwear, Jumbo Games for games and puzzles and Redan Publishing for magazines.
We have since appointed clothing licensee Silver-knit to produce Poppy Cat branded outerwear and I am hopeful that we will be able to
announce a master toy deal with a leading toy company shortly.
In addition, as the series continues to be sold internationally, so our licensing and merchandising sales programme will now be expanded
overseas. Poppy Cat has been presented to a number of potential agents in relevant territories and I look forward to making further
announcements in this regard in due course.
ii) Purple Ronnie
100% owned and a British institution with a track-record of success dating back more than 20 years. Well established in its core categories
in the UK (greetings cards and books) with the potential to expand into new categories and territories.
The attractions of Purple Ronnie to us, when acquiring  it in 2007, are just as prevalent today; an enduring track record of generating
significant cashflow in the UK, a resilience to economic cycles and a minimal requirement for capital investment. As such, the brand
continues to be an important source of cashflow for the group.
Purple Ronnie has had a strong year in its core categories in this difficult market and is well positioned for targeted development in 2011.
Category progress – greeting cards
Purple Ronnie greetings card sales in the UK have continued to perform well, despite the more general decline in the market for greetings
cards. Notably, Mother’s Day card sales were up 15% over 2009. This impressive performance culminated in December with the securing
of a new four year minimum guarantee contract with the leading greetings card company, Hallmark. We are delighted that this new
contract has been achieved with Hallmark, which has been Purple Ronnie’s greetings card partner since 2004. Excitingly, this contract
also cove rs Hallmark’s new digital initiatives such as the online personalised card service which launched successfully last year and which
featured Purple Ronnie strongly in its promotion.
Category progress – publishing
The multi-year product development partnership with Macmillan that we negotiated shortly after we acquired Purple Ronnie continues to
perform well.
Macmillan’s publishing strategy for the brand continues to be based around Purple Ronnie’s particular strength in ‘occasions’ supported
by a strong back list. Nearly 90,000 units were sold into market during the year. Highlights included a 20% year-on-year increase in sales
for Valentine’s Day 2010, with four titles making it into the top ten of the Sunday Times Best Seller list, and the publication of ‘Purple
Ronnie’s Secret Santa’ in Christmas 2010. Three new titles will be released by Macmillan in the first half of the year.
Category progress – gifts
The 2010 highlights in Purple Ronnie gifts included a dedi cated novelty gifting range in over 650 Clinton’s stores during the run up to
Valentine’s Day 2010 and a welcome return to Debenhams for Christmas 2010 with a novelty men’s gifting range.
Brand development
Having secured the strategically important renewal of the multi-year deal with Hallmark, we have continued to focus our brand
development efforts on digital opportunities, seeking to enhance Purple Ronnie’s pre-eminent position in the UK as the vehicle for social
expression and bring him to the attention of new audiences.
A key part of this has been to make sure that Purple Ronnie is available to consumers to match their current ‘digital lives’. Step one, in
2010, was the launch of two Purple Ronnie iPhone applications (‘Apps”). Step two, in 2011, has been to launch a dedicated Facebook
App, which gives users an instant 24/7 means to communicate with their friends using Purple Ronnie’s poems and personalised imagery.
The App uses the current ‘fremium’ model –  it is free to download but charges are then levied to access and use enhanced content.
We are very pleased to report that in the space of just 5 weeks since its launch for Valentine’s Day 2011, the App has attracted more than
25,000 active users, comfortably exceeding initial expectations and, perhaps more importantly, demonstrating the brand’s ongoing
resonance with all forms of social expression.
We look forward to developing further this strategic opportunity.
4
COOLABI PLC
Chief Executive’s Review - continued iii) Scarlett & Crimson
Scarlett & Crimson is in its infancy as a property. Jointly owned with its creator, Ged Backland, and with exploitation controlled
internationally by Coolabi, this tween/teen girl property has been developed from the start to be design-led and to fill a gap in the market
which exists internationally
Our efforts have continued to be focussed on building the presence of the property in its target market of fashion/cosmetics. Here, our
strategic deci sion to partner with beauty industry luminaries Ruby Hammer and Millie Kendall continues to bear fruit and Scarlett &
Crimson branded product has again performed well.
The initial Scarlett & Crimson cosmetics range, in association with Ruby & Millie, went into over 300 Boots stores in the UK in Autumn
2009, positioned as a first teen cosmetics line and aimed at the Christmas gift market. The first range was a sell-through success and, as
announced in July, Boots reordered for 2010 with an all new expanded product range of nine items, from six previously, with the number
of stores increased to over 370. This second cosmetics range saw significant year-on-year sales increases and I am pleased to report that
Boots has ordered a refreshed range for 2011.
At Superdrug, a new everyday cosmetics and accessories range was launched in almost 400 stores and 180 stores respectively in May
2010. A number of these products have sold exceptionally well, with ‘Punk Your Eyes’ eyeliner being award  nominated. The range also
won Best New Design Packaging Award at Pure Beauty 2010. Importantly, the PR secured as a result of this activity has been impressive,
with coverage in Vogue, Cosmopolitan, Glamour and The Times Magazine, amongst many others.
These early successes have led to a number of other retailers beginning to stock Scarlett & Crimson product, including ASOS and Urban
Outfitters. This is another encouraging early development and one I hope we will build on during the course of 2011.
In June 2010, we announced two important deals extending the brand’s presence in North America, underlining the property’s potential
for rapid international expansion. The first agreement was with leading beauty company Japonesque, to manufacture and distribute
Scarlett & Crimson cosmetics specifically designed for the US and Canadian markets. The range will be launched in spring 2011 and
sold through North American beauty retail channels. The second was an extension of the existing UK a greement with Ruby Hammer and
Millie Kendall to cover all global product development of Scarlett & Crimson beauty products.
iv) Bagpuss, & Ivor The Engine
Enduring British children’s classics created by Oliver Postgate and Peter Firmin. Coolabi is the international licensing agent and distributor
of all of the existing TV series.
Over the past 12 months there has been a complete update of all the Bagpuss and Clangers materials, with new artwork and
photographic imagery now available for exploitation. Several generations of the creators’ families were involved in the process which saw
Peter and Joan Firmin re-making a new Mother Clanger (since the original was stolen in the early 1970s). All photographic work was
creatively directed by Peter Firmin himself, with sets and props being newly created by Peter’s granddaughter. In addition, Daniel Postgate,
himself a successful children’s author and illustrator and Oliver Postgate’s son, has created a series of new Bagpuss images wh ich have
already been launched as greetings cards in the UK.
The production of these images was the necessary pre-cursor to a new licensing and merchandising initiative and early progress has been
most encouraging. For example, The Daily Mail reported that Bagpuss was the No. 1 selling retro toy for Christmas 2010, with Clangers
at No. 9, and the Bagpuss Posh Paws soft toys were reported as the top-selling items by Past Times for Christmas.
Also during the year, the original series of Bagpuss, Clangers & Ivor The Engine were launched on iTunes, immediately becoming three
of the top five kids shows available for download. Since launch, their popularity has remained strong, with all three still featuring on the
iTunes kids chart.
v) Literary Estates
Eric Ambler (51% owned), Michael Innes (100% owned) and John Creasey (100% owned).
We are very satisfied with the performance of these three small literary estates that we purchased in 2009, with net earnings comfortably
exceeding pre-acquisi tion levels. Literary estates remain an important area of interest and opportunity for us.
5
COOLABI PLC
Chief Executive’s Review - continued vi) Television Production
The Company’s production strategy is to develop high-quality, low-risk television series utilising our existing development portfolio and
rights library. Initially kick-started through the acquisitions of the children’s assets of Zenith Entertainment and Indie Kids, this strategy is
now supplemented by ongoing in-house development. We have a particular focus on projects that are capable of being significantly
financed before production commences and that have potential for exploitation into other areas, especially licensing.
As covered in more detail above, our focus during 2010 has been on the production of our new pre-school animated series of Poppy
Cat. However, we have a number of exciting production assets in development and I look forward to announcing progress in this regard
during the course of the year.
It  is also worth mentioning that our BBC/ABC Australia children’s live-action co-production, Dead Gorgeous proved a ratings success
both in the UK and Australia. In addition, Series 1 was nominated for two Australian television awards and was BAFTA nominated in
the UK.
Our back catalogue of programming assets, which includes The Large Family, King Arthur’s Disasters, The Worst Witch, Fungus The
Bogeyman, Bagpuss and Famous 5, continues to be exploited internationally and delivers good earnings to the group.
Outlook
We remain focussed on the pursuit of attractive organic growth. However, whilst Coolabi remains the size it is, the group will remain
susceptible to the vagaries of the macro-economic environment. Only with scale, in the form of a broad range of diversified, performing
IP assets and brands, can this susceptibility be effectively managed.
I am particularly pleased, therefore, that the progress to date with Poppy Cat has demonstrated that it is possible to develop and launch 
successfully a new IP asset in this challenging trading environment. This again shows what the team at Coolabi is capable of when
combining quality IP with the right strategy and execution.
Jeremy Banks
Chief Executive
6
COOLABI PLC
Chief Executive’s Review - continued 2
Diageo Annual Report 2010
Delivering value through 
a great mix
Driven through active 
management...
Developing 
leaders today, 
for tomorrow
Focused 
execution
Building 
strong 
relationships
Highly 
eff ective routes 
to market
World class 
marketing 
capability  
In-depth customer 
and consumer 
understanding
Great 
people
Outstanding 
brands across
categories
Diverse
markets
Long term
opportunities
and value for
stakeholders
+
=
Diageo has a combination 
of great assets...
Creating long term value
See more at:
 www.diageo.com 3
Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Performance summary
Performance summary
contents
4 Performance overview
6  Outstanding brands
8   Regional overview
10 Chairman’s statement
1 2 Chief executive’s review
14 Historical information
Diageo continually seeks to 
understand what consumers 
and shoppers want which 
informs customer relationships 
and helps people celebrate 
with its brands everyday, 
everywhere.
Diageo goes to great lengths to 
understand what its consumers want 
and how best to engage with them. 
This continual process informs the 
way Diageo relates to its consumers 
through clarity in communication, 
impactful marketing activations and 
brilliant innovations, and, increasingly, 
how it better interacts with customers 
for mutual benefi t.
 www.diageoreports.com
In-depth customer 
and consumer 
understanding DIAMONDCORP PLC 
 
 
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
 2
Dear Shareholder 
 
The past year has been one of great progress at the Lace Mine and the next 12 months should see our efforts bear 
fruit. Less than a month after receiving funds from a share placing in March last year, un derground development had 
resumed at the Lace Mine. 
 
In little more than a year, our small team had driven a decline 1,800m down to the -260m level and, as recently 
announced, hit fresh kimberlite. At this moment, ore is being brought to the surface and processed through the 
recovery plant which by the end of July is scheduled to give us a grade and value of the contained diamonds at this 
level. Initial recoveries are positive, and we are confident that our base case revenue forecast of approximately 
$30/tonne will be met, being a grade of 24 carats per hundred tonnes (“cpht”) and carat value of $120 per carat. 
 
While Lace has been the focus of our attention in recent months, we have also outlined another diamondiferous 
kimberlite on our exploration property near Debswana`s huge Jwaneng mine in Botswana. Samples from diamond 
drilling of J-05, recovered two macro diamonds and 49 micro diamonds which is exceptional for such a small 
volume. Together with the delineation of  J-01 which we found to be diamondiferous in late 2009, we now have two 
significant targets for bulk sampling.  
 
The Diamond Market 
 
Led by demand from increasingly affluent Chinese and Indian consumers, the diamond market has made a 
staggering recovery from the depressed levels of mid-2009. In February 2011, we sold a package of 1,321 carats 
recovered from the Lace tailings for an average of US$94/ct which compared to the highest price we received before 
the crash of $55/ct in September 2008 and the lowest of $33/ct we received from a small sale in May 2009. Our 
example has been experienced by other producers. 
 
The outlook is for demand to remain strong in Asia while a slow recovery in the US economy should also boost 
consumption, which is important as the US remains the largest diamond market accounting for some 40% of offtake. 
On the supply side, some closures made when prices collapsed in 2008-09 have remained in place and the only large 
new source of supply has come  from the Marange diamond fields in Zimbabwe. As we noted in our report last year, 
no major new diamondiferous kimberlite discoveries have been made in recent years;  this together with the  
prospects on the demand side could well lead to further price rises in the future. 
 
The Lace Mine 
 
Buoyed with the support we received from our brokers and shareholders in raising the required development capital 
to re-commence activities at Lace, management recruited the required contractors and workforce to resume 
operations in earnest at the mine in the second quarter of 2010. The development activities focussed on sinking a 
new 4.5m x 4.5m decline to access the main kimberlite below the previously stoped workings. Through this decline 
we would be able to get trackless mining equipment into the kimberlite pipe and extract a sufficiently large bulk 
sample to determine the grade and carat value of the Lace diamonds at the top of the remaining resources.  
 
Development commenced with a c ombination of contract miners and the Company’s own fleet of underground 
mining equipment. As the decline lengthened increasing haulage cycle times, a hire fleet of additional low profile 
dump trucks was added. 
 
The initial target for the decline to reach the pipe was the -238m level, being the base of the previous stoping 
operations which took place between 1900 and 1931. However, with safety being our number one priority, we 
modified the target depth, in consultation with our independent rock engineers and independent mining consultants, 
to the -260m level in order to provide a significant middling between our planned sampling activities and the 
previously mined areas, thereby mitigating the potential for mud rushes which is an ever present risk in underground 
kimberlite mining operations. This decision extended the time frame for completing the decline from January 2011 
until the end of March 2011. 
 
More than 1km of the decline advance was achieved by the end of 2010,  both on schedule and within budget. 
Subsequent to year end, unprecedented rainfall in southern Africa had a negative impact on progress as the decline 
was flooded on several occasions and mine dewatering ran increasingly behind schedule due to unplanned rainfall 
ingress into the old workings. The contact with the kimberlite was ultimately reached on 10 May 2011, some six 
weeks behind schedule, with a total decline length of 1.8km.  DIAMONDCORP PLC 
 
 
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
 3
The Lace Mine (continued) 
 
We are pleased to report that the decline development was achieved with only one reportable injury to a drill rig 
operator, who by year end had been able to resume full working duties. While we would have preferred to report no 
injuries whatsoever, be assured that the safety of our workforce is our prime focus, and all possible efforts are made 
to ensure our workers are correctly educated in the safest possible working practices. Fatality free shifts at  year end 
totalled 9,323 since recommencement of activities. 
 
In October, our workforce and management were shocked and saddened by the sudden and unexpected death of our 
mine manager, Mr Keith McCulloch. Keith was an inspiration to us all in resuming development activities with 
renewed enthusiasm and his presence is sadly missed. By year end, we were fortunate enough to recruit Mr Wayne 
Cloete as a new mine manager, who brought to the project enormous experience in underground trackless mining 
and decline development.  
 
Our bulk sampling plan calls for approximately 30,000 tonnes of kimberlite to be extracted from the -260m level. 
This will be taken from six 3m x 3m parallel development drives across the full extent of the 2.5 hectare main Lace 
pipe. This kimberlite will be hauled to surface and processed through the Lace dense media separation plant. The 
recovered diamonds will determine the grade of the kimberlite at the -260m level. These diamonds will be graded 
and val ued, then subsequently sold by tender to ascertain the current market value. The combination of grade and 
carat value will determine the economics of progressing to full scale mine development at Lace. 
 
Throughout 2010, the Lace dense media separation plant was kept on care and maintenance. Towards the end of the 
year, recommissioning activities commenced to ensure the plant was in optimal operational condition when the bulk 
sample was delivered for processing. Subsequent to the year end and as part of the recommissioning process, the 
plant processed several batches of kimberlite tailings remaining from mining activities which took place between 
1900 and 1931. Some 1,321 carats of diamonds recovered during this recommissioning were sold at tender in 
Johannesburg in February 2011 for US$94 per carat.  This compares with US$55 per carat received in September 
2008, the last time the Company tendered diamonds prior to the price collapse which began in the following month, 
and US$ 33 per carat received in May 2009 at the bottom of the market. This strong price for Lace tailings diamonds 
leads us to believe that DiamondCorp’s base case of US$120 per carat for diamonds from the Lace pipe is 
conservative in the current market. 
 
Also subsequent to the year end, a detailed review of life of mine planning has been undertaken by the Lace mine 
management team in conjunction with DiamondCorp’s Group Consulting Mining Engineer, Mr Bob Harverson. Mr 
Harverson is a mining engineer with more than 40 years’ experience in underground diamond mines in South 
Africa. He was previously Mine Manager (Kimberley) and Project Manager (Finsch) for De Beers, then independent 
advisor to De Beers on block caving and underground mining across all De Beers’ operations. Also involved in the 
planning has been Dr Patrick Bartlett, an independent consulting geologist with more than 40 years’ experience in 
underground diamond mines in South Africa. He was previously Chief Geo logist, Premier Mine and Block Cave 
School Project Leader for De Beers.  
 
The results of the life of mine review can be summarized as follows: 
 
·      Mining of the first block of kimberlite between the 26 and 33 levels  (-260m to -330m depth) is scheduled to 
be undertaken at a rate of 4,000 tonnes per day. 
·      The first block containing approximately 4.8 million tonnes of kimberlite will be mined by sub-level stoping, 
followed by sub-level caving for the estimated 27.5 million tonnes of kimberlite below the 33 level. 
·      Ore hoisting will be by conveyor belts to surface and the existing 6.5m x 2.5m vertical shaft will be used for 
upcast ventilation. This eliminates the requirement to raise bore a new ventilation shaft. 
·      The introduction of conveyors has resulted in an increase in development costs, but provides significant 
savings on life of mine operating costs given the anticipated increases in South African electricity tariffs in the 
years ahead. It has  minimal impact on the development schedule. 
·      Three diamond selling prices were considered, all using an initial mining grade of 24 carats per hundred tonnes 
(cpht) - a base case of US$120 per carat, a middle case of US$140 per carat and an upper case of US$160 per 
carat. 
·      Diamond grade is forecast to rise to 40 cpht after the first eight years of mining when the deeper, higher grade 
CK (coherent) kimberlite is mined. 
 
  DIAMONDCORP PLC 
 
 
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
 4
The Lace Mine (continued) 
 
·      A grade of 24 cpht results in annual production of 294,000 carats. A grade of 40 cpht results in annual 
production of 490,000 carats. 
·      Approximately 425,000 tonnes of kimberlite is scheduled to be mined from stoping development during the 17 
months of mine development through to November 2012 when full-scale commercial production is expected to 
be reached. 
·      Diamond sales revenue from this kimberlite, along with a small tonna ge of tailings and waste rock for road 
stone, is estimated to contribute between R90,000,000 (£8.04 million) and R116,000,000 (£10.35 million) 
towards mine development costs, depending on grade and carat value. 
·      Net capital cost estimates to reach full production range from R100,000,000 (£8.9 million) to R126,000,000 
(£11.3 million) depending on revenue generated during development. 
·      Diamond revenue is estimated to be between R196 (£17.50) and R261 (£23.30) per tonne. 
·      Operating costs are estimated to be R105 (£9.38) per tonne, resulting in an initial operating margin of between 
46% and 60%. 
 
If the bulk sample is positive in terms of grade and carat value, we will need to undertake a significant capital 
raising in order to complete the full scale mine development. The exact amount of capital required to achieve full 
scale mine development will be a function of bulk test grade and carat as approximately 425,000 tonnes of 
kimberlite will be extrac ted during the mine development process as sub-level stoping is established between the                    
-260m and the -330m levels. The diamonds recovered from this development kimberlite will be sold during the 
development ramp up and the revenue generated booked as a credit to development costs.  
 
In the past 12 months we have benefited from the continued financial support of our major and institutional 
shareholders, and we look forward to their continued support in achieving our ultimate goal of profitable production 
from Lace. The sooner we can raise our development capital after the bulk test, the quicker we will be able to add 
value for shareholders by completing the full scale mine development at Lace. 
 
Botswana Exploration Joint Venture 
 
DiamondCorp is earning a 77.5% joint venture interest in Prospecting Licence PL/71 in Botswana, immediately 
south of De Beers’ Jwaneng mine, the richest diamond mine in the world by value. During the year the Botswana 
Governme nt renewed the licence for a further two-year term and drilling activities continued on two of three 
priority kimberlite targets – J-01, J-05 and J-12. 
 
Five diamond boreholes of HQ size (63.5 mm diameter) core were drilled into geophysical target J-05 and 
intersected volcaniclastic kimberlite (“VK”) and coherent kimberlite (“CK”) at vertical depths up to 218 metres 
under a relatively shallow 28m of Kalahari sand cover. J-05 lies 5 km to the northwest of J-01, a 10 hectare 
diamondiferous kimberlite identified by DiamondCorp drilling last November. 
 
The drilling has shown J-05 to be an elongated kimberlite narrowing to the east and widening to the west, with an 
estimated total surface area of approximately 1.5 hectare, based on drilling to date. Logging of the boreholes 
indicates the J-05 kimberlite comprises calcretised kimberlite from approximately 28m to approximately 50m 
vertical depth, slumped Karoo mudstones and VK from 50m to up to 105m vertical depth, and va rious facies of VK 
and CK from 85m to at least 218m, the deepest drill intersections from the 2010 programme. 
 
Eight samples weighing between approximately 50kg and 75kg each were collected from sections of the J-05 drill 
core and were despatched to Saskatchewan Research Council’s laboratory in Saskatoon, Canada, for microdiamond 
recovery. The samples were taken from both VK and CK intersections, and were treated by means of caustic fusion. 
The samples yielded 51 diamonds, comprising two macrodiamonds and 49 microdiamonds. One macrodiamond was 
white/colourless and one was off-white. (Macrodiamonds are diamonds that are greater than 0.5mm in the longest 
axial dimension.) Encouragingly, the presence of two macrodiamonds suggests the possibility of a coarse stone size 
distribution. 
 
Of particular geological interest is the presence of mudstones in the core which indicates that the kimberlite 
intruded unconsolidated sediment at the time of emplacement. In addition, kimberlite  is ‘mixed-in’ with these 
mudstones in places. The mudstones are most likely to be of Karoo age (approx. 250 million years ago). These 
features suggest that the J-05 kimberlite is the same or similar age to the kimberlite being mined by Debswana at  
  DIAMONDCORP PLC 
 
 
LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
 5
Botswana Exploration Joint Venture (continued) 
 
Jwaneng, 10km to the northwest where similar features are known to be present. Jwaneng is the richest diamond 
mine in the world measured by value.   
 
At the J-12 geophysical target within PL/71, four boreholes were completed with no kimberlite intersected. The 
geophysical anomaly would appear to be related to a granitic intrusion and no further work will be undertaken on 
this prospect. 
 
We were very pleased that our exploration at PL/71 has so far resulted in two diamondiferous kimberlites for mini 
bulk testing, providing us with a pipeline of promising diamond exploration projects in Botswana in addition  to our 
long-life Lace diamond mine development in South Africa. Mini bulk testing of both J-01 and J-05 is scheduled for 
the second half of 2011, with a programme of large-diameter (445mm) drill holes to 200m vertical depth. The 
samples collected from these holes will be processed through a 2 tonne per hour dense media separation sampling 
plant to provide an indicative diamond grade. 
 
New Opportunities 
 
During the year, a number of other diamond opportunities were assessed, but none were considered sufficiently 
attractive to warrant further investigation. The Company will continue to monitor opportunities as and when they 
arise and utilise its in-house skill base and network of external consultants to secure any other diamond 
opportunities with the potential to accrete value for our shareholders. 
 
Funding for the Future 
 
In March 2010, we raised £7.1m at 7p per share before expenses to enable us to resume underground development at 
Lace and further exploration in Botsw ana. We had hoped that this sum would fund us through to bulk sampling at 
Lace but as reported above, the need to mine deeper and cost escalations coupled with the strength of the Rand, 
necessitated a further placing in December to raise £3m gross at 8.5p. 
 
In June 2011, we raised £3.48m gross at 13p to fund our exploration programme in Botswana and general working 
capital. To take Lace into full production and to retire the $1.85 million of equipment debt on our balance sheet, this 
year we will seek to raise a further £10-12m in the near future. With this contribution, the total that we will have 
spent on bringing the Lace Mine into full production is expected to be around £30m. This is a very low number for a 
1.2mtpa operation and we believe is a remarkable achievement for which we thank all our employees, contractors, 
advisers and consultants. 
 
In Conclusion   
 
Mining is a hard industry and we have battled through excessive rainfall, equipment breakdowns, and often  at times 
poor rock conditions whilst adhering to stringent safety requirements to achieve our goal of reaching fresh 
kimberlite at Lace. We are under no illusion that there will be hurdles ahead but with the exciting outlook for 
diamond prices, we can now look forward to producing revenues and profits from Lace while setting out to sample 
our two exciting kimberlite targets in Botswana. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Euan Worthington     Paul Loudon 
Executive Chairman     Managing Director  02
Stock Exchange Code: DISL Discover Leisure plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
20020.04 01/11/2010 Proof 4
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s Statement
“The Group made a large step towards sustained 
profitability at current market volumes. ”
Introduction
The Group, in its first full year since the major restructuring 
in mid 2009, has achieved significant improvements in 
several key areas of the business. This performance has 
been achieved despite the weak economic environment in 
the six months to Feb ruary 2010, following which the UK 
economy edged back to growth in the spring, before 
softening again as confidence weakened in our 
traditionally stronger summer months. During this latter 
period, the rate of decline in the UK market for leisure 
vehicles has lessened considerably, particularly for touring 
caravans which account for the majority of the Group’s 
total unit volumes.
The financial year has also been one of transition. The first 
half of the year was impacted by the aftermath of the 
major restructuring in the early summer of 2009. In 
particular the focus changed from the impact of the CVA 
and the closure of a number of branches to the retained 
business and significant changes were implemented in 
these, including further cost reductions. These were largely 
completed prior to the beginning of the 2010 season and 
as a result the business could focus upon trading in what 
was still a difficult marketplace. The results in the second 
half saw significant improveme nts and the Group made 
a large step towards sustained profitability at current 
market volumes.
Importantly, Discover produced an operating profit in each 
of the six months to August 2010 and also completed the 
renewal of its banking facilities on 31 August 2010. Please 
see the Finance Director’s Review for details of the 
revised facilities.
Financial Results
Revenue for the year ended 31 August 2010 was £52.25 
million (2009: £84.44 million) and the loss from operations 
before exceptional items was £0.61 million (2009: 
£8.07 million). 
After adjusting for the exceptional and one-off items, 
the loss from operations was £0.74 million (2009: 
£15.15 million).
The loss before tax was £1.80 million (2009: £16.71 million).
Basic and diluted losses per share were 1.00p (2009: 11.21p).
For a fuller explanation of the results please see the 
Finance Director’s Review.
Dividend
At this stage in Discover’s recovery, the Board does not 
intend to declare a dividend.
The Mark et
Discover Leisure operates within the UK touring caravan, 
motorhome and camping equipment sector (estimated to 
be worth £1.6 billion p.a. prior to the recession) and the UK 
outdoor clothing equipment sector (estimated to be worth 
£1.2 billion p.a. prior to the recession).
From 2000, the total UK market for leisure vehicles (tourer 
trade sales plus motorhome registrations) grew steadily to 
a reach a peak of 43,510 units in 2007. The advent of the 
recession then saw total volumes fall by 15.2% in 2008 and 
a further 25.3% in 2009. The 2009 market at 27,552 units 
was 36.6% less than the 2007 peak and 20.4% lower than 
the 2000–2009 average of 34,610 (source: National Caravan 
Council (NCC)).
During 2010, a degree of confidence has returned to the 
market in the form of much reduced rates of year on year 
volume declines. At the end of August 2010, the total 
market’s moving annual total (MAT) had risen by 7.9% to 
31,535 units compared to December 2009 (source: 
National C aravan Council). This rise was driven partially 
by tourer inventory replenishment and partly by an upturn 
in tourer retail sales.
New vehicle inventories rose in 2010 as cautious 
confidence began to return but good margins were 
maintained during the summer trading. Some heavier 
discounting has returned in the autumn as dealers seek to 
liquidate excess inventories before the winter period.
Touring caravans
During the final quarter of 2009, the UK’s tourer distributors 
ended their two year programme of inventory reduction in 
anticipation of a seasonal uplift in 2010. Sales to the trade 
in the twelve months to August 2010 were up by 20.5% 
over the previous year. 
In parallel, the retail sales of new tourers in 2010, which are 
now being measured by the NCC, have moved from 
decline to growth. In the three months to August 2010, 
retail sales were 6.3% higher than last year.
The market for used touring caravans has benefited from 
stronger demand in the year to August 2010 but  sales have 
been constrained by a lack of supply after the new market 
contraction. Discover’s used tourer margins have been 
similar to those of 2009.
20020.04DISCOVLE.indd   02 20020.04DISCOVLE.indd   02 02/11/2010   11:55 02/11/2010   11:55 03
www.discover.co.uk Discover Leisure plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
20020.04 01/11/2010 Proof 4
Motorhomes
The pattern in the higher priced motorhome market has 
lagged that of the tourer market with both its decline and 
recovery being later. However, a positive change in 
demand does appear to have started during 2010.
In the eight months to August 2010, the rate of decline in 
retail registrations has progressively reduced as shown 
below:
   Change in Registrations
Period   % 2010/2009
Jan to Mar   (25%)
Apr to June   (13%)
July to Aug   (7%)
This slower recovery, however, has led to an excess of 
inventory in the market and some bigger discounts.
The market in used motorhomes has been similar to that 
of used tourers but Discover has  managed to increase its 
profit per unit by 28%.
Service and Other
Demand in the after sales market in 2010 has been mixed. 
Sales of service and repairs have maintained their 2009 
levels on a like for like basis as change cycles have 
lengthened but accessory volumes have been weaker as 
customers economised.
Operational Results and Plans
Results FY 2010 
The second phase of the Group’s recovery plan was to 
rebuild credibility with all stakeholders and to create a 
stable platform for growth during FY 2010 and excellent 
progress has been achieved in both areas.
Supplier relationships have largely returned to the previous 
norms, staff morale remains high, customer complaints 
reduced compared to FY 2009 and the shareholder base 
has stabilised.
At the same time, the Group’s trading platform has been 
bolstered in 2010 by across the board improvements in like 
for like (LFL) operating performance:
 n The Group significantly outperformed the new 
tourer and motorhome markets in t he eight months 
to 31 August 2010:
 Jan – Aug 2010/2009
  UK Market Discover LFL
New tourer retail sales  (2.8%) +6.4%
Motorhome registrations  (15.9%) +6.9%
 n Average margins on new vehicles rose strongly in the 
twelve months to August 2010 compared to those in 
the previous year. The profit per unit increased by 83% 
on new tourers and 96% on new motorhomes.
 n Finance penetration on vehicle sales has also increased 
markedly.
 n In a relatively weak market, like for like total gross profit 
including finance commission grew from £4.13 million 
to £7.48 million in FY 2010 — an increase of 81% 
compared to the previous year.
 n Simultaneously, total operating costs, excluding 
exceptional items and closed site costs, were reduced 
by £1.97 million (20%).
 n The share of total new and used vehicle inventories 
funded by Black Horse increased to 81% at 31 August 
2010 (August 2009: 72%) with 96% of all new units 
funded (2009: 85%).
 n The age profile of the new vehicle invent ory at 
31 August 2010 has improved considerably with only 
one previous year model unsold (2009: 53).
 n Total interest charges in FY 2010 have been reduced by 
47% over FY 2009.
 n Cash flow generated from operating and investing 
activities of £3.82 million (2009: £2.07 million) used for 
finance repayments of £4.57 million (2009: £2.71 million). 
Plans and actions FY 2011
The focus in the second year of the Group’s recovery will 
be on achieving a profit through the acceleration of certain 
revenue streams, further cost reductions, efficiency gains 
and the improvement of customer satisfaction levels.
Incremental revenue opportunities have been identified in 
the markets for new tourers, franchised mechanical repairs 
and parts. There are also significant opportunities in the 
market for warranties, insurance and service plans and 
these will continue to be the focus for the centralised 
direct sales operation.
Property Sales
The sale of the remaining five of the original sev en surplus 
sites has progressed well in the year to August 2010.
In addition to the two sites sold in FY 2009, a further 
four were completed in the last financial year to reduce 
the original £5 million asset disposal loan to £1.9 million as 
at 31 August 2010.
The seventh and last property at Portsmouth has been 
sold for a cash consideration of £1.65 million, subject to 
planning permission for residential development. 
On 29 October 2010, Havant Borough Council granted 
planning permission in respect of a proposed residential 
development on this site .As a result, the contract for the 
sale of this property should now complete within at least a 
four month period subject to there being no appeal to the 
Secretary of State against the grant of planning permission 
and that this appeal is upheld by the Secretary of State.
A twenty-one month seasonalised repayment schedule has 
been agreed with RBS for the expected loan residue 
of £280,000.
Discover Team
We would like to place  on record our appreciation of the 
invaluable contribution made by the Discover team in 
2010. They have managed to maintain their energy and 
enthusiasm throughout another challenging year and their 
commitment to Discover is a real asset for the Group.
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s Statement
20020.04DISCOVLE.indd   03 20020.04DISCOVLE.indd   03 02/11/2010   11:55 02/11/2010   11:55 04
Stock Exchange Code: DISL Discover Leisure plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
20020.04 01/11/2010 Proof 4
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Outlook
Whilst previous predictions for the UK economy suggested 
that there will be modest growth in 2011, the faltering of 
consumer confidence in the late summer, the January VAT 
increase and the recently announced spending cuts have 
combined to make the UK outlook uncertain, 
unpredictable and possibly unstable.
In this environment, it is difficult to forecast the likely trend 
in the UK leisure vehicle market. Recent patterns have  
shown that the retail demand for tourers and motorhomes 
is at or approaching the bottom as change cycles reach 
their limit. Going forward, the industry is expecting an 
upturn in orders prior to the VAT increase but a tough first 
quarter of 2011. 
Discover enters this period cautiously but with much 
improved operational health and the continued support of 
its lenders. Until the market becomes clearer the focus will 
remain on opportunities for market share, particularly in 
service, debt reduction and cash generation. This focus 
has brought encouraging early results for Discover in 
October 2010 at the annual NEC Caravan and Motorhome 
Show when orders for vehicles were 125% higher than 
last year.
We look forward to a second year of performance 
improvement in 2011.
 
David Morrow Trevor Parker
Chairman Chief Executive
29 October 2010 29 October 2010
20020.04DISCOVLE.indd   04 20020.04DISCOVLE.indd   04 02/11/2010   11:55 02/11/2010   11:55 www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Repo rt and Accounts 2009/2010
2
Chairman’s & Chief Executive’s report
This pleasing result is slightly ahead of our 
target and reflects our continued focus on 
new client acquisition and investment in new 
products and services.
In addition to achieving significant growth in profitability, we have 
continued to invest for the future. For example, to strengthen our 
competitive position we have committed resources to the underlying 
technical infrastructure which supports our products and more 
particularly, significant sums have been invested in further product 
development. Our total investment this year has amounted to £92k of 
capital investment in hardware and £338k of research and development 
activity in products and services.
Added to our internal investment, we committed funds to the 
acquisition of Netcallidus Limited (“Netcallidus”) in May as part of the 
strategy to increase our presence and profits from the provision of 
search engine optimisation (SEO) services. As  the acquisition took 
place very late in our financial year the impact of consolidation of the 
Netcallidus profits on the Group profit for the year has been minimal. 
In line with IFRS3 the costs of acquisition have been expensed in the 
current financial year.
A c quisition	str a t egy 
Since admission to the Plus market, as well as driving the business 
forward with an aggressive organic growth strategy, the Board have 
approved an acquisition strategy that it believes will deliver long-term 
share shareholder value. 
 
The target sectors selected for potential acquisitions are: 
SEO; •	
Mobile; •	
Word of Mouth Marketing; •	
Surveys; •	
Analytics; •	
Usability testing; •	
Research. •	
The ‘ideal’ criteria agreed for acquisition targets are as follows: 
High proportion of recurring revenues ideally minimum 40% of total; •	
No more than 10% of revenue from one client; •	
Strong technology with ownership of IP; •	
Not dependant on one (few) key person(s); •	
 Client base closely matches the dotMailer/Group client profiles; •	
Turnover £1m plus or potential to be £1m plus inside two years; •	
Total consideration ideally 3-7 PE Ratio; •	
Deferred consideration to ensure goal alignment to dotDigital •	
shareholders;
Consideration ideally no more than 50% cash with the remainder •	
payable in shares.
Strict enforcement of the above criteria will inevitably restrict the 
number of available targets and the Board approval process has 
flexibility to vary these criteria when an opportunity arises with 
considerable potential future earnings growth, or where the target can 
provide a technology platform of value to the existing customer base. 
 
A c quisition	of	Net callidus 
In 2009 the Board agreed that a strategic priority was to bring SEO 
under our own roof where in the past we had provided this service 
through a joint venture with a third party. During the course of 2009 we 
formed dotSEO to commence provision of this service in  house and we 
engaged in negotiations with four potential acquisition targets during 
2009 before finally acquiring Northamptonshire based Netcallidus. 
Netcallidus is a highly successful and fast-growing search marketing 
business (which met all of our acquisition criteria) in May 2010.
To overcome the challenge of valuing a young fast-growing profitable 
business in a burgeoning market sector but during a global downturn 
both we and Netcallidus agreed that the most appropriate deal 
structure would be through an earn-out scheme linked to a multiple 
of Netcallidus’s post-tax profit in 2009/10, 2010/11 and 2011/12, with 
an initial cash consideration.
The Board believes that this arrangement will achieve goal alignment 
between the Directors of Netcallidus, the Board and shareholders of 
dotDigital. The final consideration paid to the original shareholders of 
Netcallidus will be three times the profit after tax for the year ended  
30 June 2012, and will be made up of both cash an d dotDigital 
Ordinary Shares. If the targets in the business plan are met, the profits 
from Netcallidus will have significantly increased the profits of the 
Group and in the opinion of the Board will be earnings accretive and 
value enhancing.  dotDigital Group  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009/2010 
3
dotM ailer – In the Directors’ opinion, a 
market leading email marketing platform 
with exceptional features and ease of use. 
It is delivered and supported by a team of 
dedicated and passionate professionals.
dotC ommer c e – The Group’s latest 
ecommerce solution considered by  
the Directors to provide a unique and 
compelling proposition to online sellers;  
a flexible bespoke build experience, for  
the cost of an off-the-shelf package.
dotSEO – dotSEO undertakes detailed 
keyword analysis to identify the primary 
keywords and phrases visitors are using to find 
your products and services, develops a SEO 
strategy to maximise traffic and conversion 
and focuses on gen erating maximum ROI from 
your online marketing.
dotAgency – An in-house creative  
agency team specialising in website 
design, build, digital marketing strategy  
and search engine optimisation.
netcallidus – Netcallidus has been helping 
all types of businesses harness the power of 
Internet Marketing Services since its inception. 
With over 100 clients across B2B and B2C 
Netcallidus have the expertise to achieve great 
results from search engine optimisation and  
management of pay per click campaigns.
Our business is split into  
five main brands and  
business units, each with  
high level expertise: www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009/2010
4
The Group has made excellent progress with the integration of 
Netcallidus. All accounting and management information is now 
handled by our central finance team and sales teams across all of the 
dotDigital business have now been trained in the sale of SEO. Moreover, 
the Directors of Netcallidus have agreed a busi ness plan with the Board 
and operational processes for sale and support of clients using SEO 
services have been harmonised.  
 
Net callidus	def err ed	c onsider a tion
IFRS3 (Revised ) requires the deferred consideration payable in October 
2011 and October 2012 based on multiples of profit after tax for years 
ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2012 to be estimated and included in 
the accounts as part of the fair value of the acquisition.
The calculation of fair value has been based upon deferred consideration 
that has been based upon a range of scenarios of possible future profits. 
 
Taking in to account the uncertainties inherent in forecasting the 
revenues and profits of a relatively newly established business that had 
been part of the Group for only 6 weeks at the year end and which is 
operating in a fast changing market place it should be noted there is a 
very high likelihood that the actual profits for the year ended June 2012 
could be at variance with these estimates.
In  arriving at and negotiating the structure of the acquisition the 
Board were mindful of the need to ensure the proposed deferred 
consideration did not create liquidity risk for the Group. The structure of 
the deferred consideration element is such that under all the scenarios 
which could be envisaged the cash flows generated by the profit 
stream of the Netcallidus business will be sufficient to fund the cash 
element of the deferred consideration. 
 
M insk ,	B elarus 
In October 2010 we announced the opening of a new facility in 
Minsk employing 15 staff initially to provide strengthened operational 
capability to Netcallidus and at the same time removing the 
requirement for outsourcing to India. So far we have been pleased with 
the outcome of this exercise and have plans to use further talented 
Belarussion staff across other areas of the Group. 
O r ganic	g r o wth	str a t egy	
Last November dotDigital won the National Business Awards Best 
Growth Strategy award. This was in  recognition of our organic growth 
strategy of pursuing new client acquisition through a mixture of online 
Chairman’s & Chief Executive’s report continued
43%
  Increase  
 in revenue 
  in 2010  dotDigital Group  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009/2010 
5
marketing and attendance at trade shows and through increasing  
the level of cross-sell to existing clients through focused account 
management and provision of complimentary and adjacent services.
By focusing on our own search engine optimisation and through 
the implementation of a comprehensive CRM system we have high 
levels of organic growth with client numbers increasing at the rate of 
around 100 new clients per month. Continuous training of our sales 
and account management teams has resulted in cross selling of other 
adjacent digital marketing services to our client base. This is becoming 
a significant source of new revenue which we expect will continue to 
grow, particularly with the added expertise of Netcallidus.
Th e Directors believe that by focussing on four key areas, growth will 
continue within the business:
Highly focused marketing activity delivering high quality sales  •	
leads to a fully motivated and goal aligned sales team;
Recruitment of the best available talent in all areas of business; •	
 
 
 
Designing and building innovative products that are intuitive to use •	
and deliver high levels of functionality to assist our clients in beating 
their business objectives;
Outstanding levels of support and client care. •	
By focusing on all aspects of our clients’ digital marketing needs,  
we believe the business is uniquely positioned to provide companies 
with solutions to fulfil their requirements and provide a positive return 
on investment. 
 
S taff 
The Board would like to thank all of the management and staff for 
their hard work, dedication and commitment to the business during 
the past year. We have a very young team, whose average age is 26 
(excluding Directors). Ma ny of those young people have taken on extra 
responsibilities, learned new skills and taken up leadership challenges 
during the past year.
The quality and commitment of our team is one of the factors  
which gives the Board great confidence that we can continue to  
grow even in difficult economic times. We believe in giving employees 
sufficient autonomy to make good decisions about everything from 
product design to dealing with customer service issues. It is because of 
the quality of our staff that we have continued to grow our customer 
base and deliver great new products and services to our clients.
With this in mind we aim to share the success of the Group with the 
staff through bonus payments and share options. The Directors are 
open about the business objectives and senior managers actively 
engage with their teams so that everyone understands how their  
efforts contribute to the overall business success. All staff who have 
completed their probation are eligible for a pe rformance and profit 
related bonus scheme and are eligible for share options managed 
through an HMRC approved employee share option scheme.
“ I’d tried 2 other ecommerce 
solutions providers before  
I found dotCommerce.  
Use them. ”
  Paul Bennett 
Fastfixdirect.co.uk
“ Thanks for creating such a 
superb website. It’s a joy to 
look at and use. I’m particularly 
impressed by the amount of 
work that’s been done in such  
a short period of time. ”
   Jules Griffith,  
Director of Communications,  
Somerset House
“ Our website went live and 
it was a much smoother 
transition than I thought! 
The dotAgency team have 
been extremely helpful and 
supportive. ” 
    Tracy Wheeler 
Throgmorton
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
A ge	of	emplo y ees	(b y	number	of	emply ees)
20-25 26-30 31-40 41-50 www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009/2010
6
 Irwin and Jordan 
“ You provided a fantastic platform to 
allow us designers to do what we are 
good at: making clothes  look good! 
Dotcommerce’s systems allow us to 
display our collection in and elegant 
and sophisticated way!” 
 www.irwinandjordan.com
Despite becoming a much larger business, the Directors firmly believe 
that maintaining the entrepreneurial culture that was fundamental to 
the success of the business in its early days, is still critical to achieving 
success today. The Group adopts a wide range of formal and informal 
communication tools to ensure ideas are shared. The vision is shared 
and that people have a sense of belonging to the business.
O ur	c ommitmen t	t o	e x c eptional	clien t	ser vic e
The Board firmly believes that the key to a long-term sustainable 
growing business emanates from delighting our customers. Everyone in 
the business is customer driven and we are striving to develop a culture 
that is passionate about customer service.
The business is structured to ensure that all customers receive client 
service and support appropriate to their needs and we have int roduced 
a number of new initiatives to ensure we continue to evolve and 
develop products and services which delight our clients.
During the year there have been considerable activity aimed at 
continually improving the service we provide to our customers, including:
The appointment of Skip Fidura as Group Client Services Director; •	
Expanding our friendly and effective telephone support teams; •	
Introducing video-based usability testing and tracking techniques  •	
to improve user experience of our products;
In-depth client interviews to understand how our service can be •	
improved still further simple surveys to get quantitative data on 
client needs;
User Groups to obtain first-hand feedback from customers about •	
new product features.
IT infrastructure
The Group has made significant investments in its IT infrastructure. 
As part of the strategy to ensure the Company is well positioned to 
exploit future growth opportunities, the Board has approved capital 
expenditure  on a number of projects including:
Ensuring future scalability through the use of latest blade server •	
technology and SAN data storage systems;
Creating a full-scale test facility; •	
Reducing dependencies on single suppliers; •	
Reducing environmental impact by selecting low power •	
consumption hardware; 
 
Chairman’s & Chief Executive’s report continued dotDigital Group  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009/2010 
7
We aim to share 
the success of the 
Company with  
the staff... www.dotdigitalgroup.com 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009/2010
8
The Group is focusing on developing significant new features and 
enhanced usability for its email marketing product, dotMailer. Future 
planned product development will include new versions of the  
content management tool, a new survey tool and a SaaS version  
of the successful E-Commerce platform known as dotCommerce. 
 
S tr a t egy	f or	the	c oming	y ear 
The Board has agreed a business plan for the coming year that it 
believes  will continue to deliver growth in both profits and revenues 
and position the business soundly for growth in future years.
Some key elements of the plan are as follows:
To complete the integration of Netcallidus and focus all our sales •	
teams on identifying profitable SEO opportunities from within our 
client base;
We recognise the dynamic growth in this market is occurring •	
worldwide and part of the Group’s short-term objective is to identify 
the areas in which we could make the maximum impact;
To initiate a programme of international expansion of our core •	
services. This may involve overseas acquisitions and/or franchising 
agreements to suitably qualified overseas partners;
Increase the resources focused on our own search engine •	
optimisation and business marketing, expanding the use of social 
media marketing, PR and educational client events and reviewing 
our branding;
Chairman’s & Chief Executive’s report continued
Fully documenting systems and security  policies; •	
Increasing resilience by eliminating single points of failure and •	
implementing mirroring technology;
Extensive security audits, including external penetration testing. •	
I mpr o ving	g r oss	mar g in	on	bespok e	pr ojec ts
Following successful trials during the year the Group has modified  
its approach to managing bespoke projects carried out on behalf  
f clients. Whilst project management, project specification and client 
management are still carried out by employees based in the UK,  
much of the development activity will be carried out by partner 
organisations operating with a lower cost and fixed prices to ensure 
margins are managed. 
 
The Directors are confident that this change in approach will improve 
profitability, give greater flexibility of scheduling, and ensure a greater 
capacity to scale to meet client demands.
Product development
The Board has a clear strategy to increase the proportion of Group 
revenues that will be derived from recurring  revenues based 
on products sold on a Software as a Service (“SaaS”) basis. The 
development team working on product development has been 
significantly strengthened during the year and following changes made 
to the delivery of client bespoke projects further development resource 
will be focused on product development during 2010/2011. dotDigital Group  
Annual Report and Accounts 2009/2010 
9
O utlook
The market for our products and services continues to remain buoyant 
despite the world economic crisis. The growth of our customer base 
remains unabated as they continue to embrace the power of digital 
marketing.
After settling the initial acquisition consideration for Netcallidus, our 
cash position remains strong and we believe we are well placed to  
continue to invest in hardware, research and development and  
further acquisitions.
Recognition of the dotDigital Group brands has continued to grow 
during the past year and this strong brand awareness combined with 
customer t estimonials, increased marketing activity and continuously 
improving products will position the business well to win new clients 
into the future.
We look forward to the New Year with confidence.
Da vid	P ac y	 	 P et er	Simmonds 
Chairman  Chief Executive 
11 November 2010  11 November 2010
To further expand the technical development resources focussed •	
on the delivery of innovative new products and services which are 
complimentary and adjacent to our existing offerings. Continuing to 
add innovative new features to our existing products;
To extend the use of usability testing and user experience •	
techniques to ensure our products enjoy maximum take-up by new 
trial users and by testing the concept of “freemium” versions of our 
products to widen the user base;
We aim to start development of SaaS version of dotCommerce •	
aimed at providing a fully featured easy to use E-Commerce 
application for the smaller end of the SME market;
We plan to launch a new version of dot Mailer with a brand-new step •	
process and highly intuitive and innovative drag-and-drop editing tool.
Dividend policy
It is the Board’s intention to achieve capital growth on the strength 
of continuing to grow the business, investment in new products 
and identifying further earning enhancing acquisitions. Although 
the business is cash flow positive the Directors believe that it is 
inappropriate to propose a dividend during this phase of planned  
high growth.
‘ The market for our products and services continues 
to remain buoyant despite the world economic 
crisis. The growth of our customer base remains 
unabated as they continue to embrace the power 
of digital marketing. ’ 2   Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010
18532.04 03/12/10 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s r eview 
(Incorporating the Business r eview)
This has been another testing year for the pub sector with licensees once again having to meet the challenge of 
weak consumer demand, duty increases ahead of the rat e of inflation and aggressive pricing from supermarkets.
Despite these difficult economic times, we have delivered EBITDA before exceptional items of £405 million, a 
solid result which reflects the gradual stabilisation of the business. Average net income per pub was stable during 
the second half of the year giving an overall decline of less than 2% for the year to 30 September 2010, compared 
to a decline of 8% last year.
At the year end, the percentage of our pub estate on substantive agreements had increased to 89% by number 
of pubs, representing 94% of total net income which, on a like-for-like basis in these pubs, had declined by 2% 
during the year.
Given the current degree of market uncertainty, the Board does not consider that the resumption of dividends 
now would be appropriate. However, subject to market conditions over the coming year, we expect to see further 
stabilisation in the performance of the pub estate and further reductions in the level of debt through strong  cash 
generation from trading and the disposal of non-core pubs. On this basis, the Board is confident that the business 
is in a sound position to deliver positive returns to shareholders over the medium-term, including the resumption 
of dividend payments.
Tr ADING r EVIEW
Improving net income trend
We consider that net income per pub is the correct measure by which to report on the performance of our pub 
estate, removing potential distortions created by changes to central overheads and to leasehold rent payable 
resulting from our sale and leaseback programme.
During the second half of the year, we achieved our target of arresting the decline in average net income per pub 
which was flat compared to a 3% decline in the first half of this year and an 8% decline for the corresponding 
period last year. We are now seeing a consistent improvement in average net income performance, a trend 
that we will seek to continue as we invest in the quality of our pub estate and our licensees and  churn out 
underperformers.
Improving like-for-like performance across the whole estate
Our continuing commitment to disposing of non-core, underperforming outlets has clearly helped to deliver 
improved average net income per pub. Removing the impact of disposals and therefore on a like-for-like basis, 
average income per pub across the whole estate declined by 5% during the year (2009 — down 8%), with marked 
regional differences. 
 
 No. of
 pubs at  Income % of Inc/pub Income Inc/pub 
 30 Sept % of Fy10 income Fy10 FY09 FY09 Change 
Location 2010 pubs £m Fy10 £k £m £k %
North 2,276 33 147 32 65 159 70 (8)
Central 1,884 28 118 26 63 125 66 (6)
South 2,660 39 191 42 72 196 74 (3)
Total 6,820  456  67 480 70 (5)    Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010   3
18532.04 03/12/10 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s r eview 
(Incorporating the Business r eview)
Like-for-like performance stabilising in the substantive estate
Like-for-like income in our substantive estate, which represented 94 % of our total net income in the year, fell by 
just 2% and trends within the substantive estate were particularly encouraging. Some 2,500 licensees, who have 
been in their pubs for more than five years, delivered net income declines of 2% during the year. A similar number 
of licensees who have been in their pub for between one and five years saw net income grow by more than 2%. 
Together therefore this group of licensees, which represent 72% of our pubs by number, 80% by total income, 
delivered unchanged like-for-like income over the past year.
Of the remaining pubs within our substantive estate where licensees have been in occupation for less than one 
year, there are some 200 who have joined our business through assignment during the year and are growing 
income by 7% year on year. A further 1,000 signed up to substantive agreements during the last 12 months and 
are still settling into their businesses. Many of these licensees are enjoying stepped rents and other concessions 
as  they seek to build their new businesses and whilst the like-for-like annual decline is currently 19%, we are 
pleased to see a consistent improvement in the performance of these pubs. 
The balance of the estate represents pubs that are closed, holding over or operating under temporary tenancies 
and their like-for-like income is down 35% year on year. Whilst a number of these pubs are viable and will be 
re-launched following investment and the recruitment of a substantive licensee, many will be sold during the 
coming year.
    No. of
   pubs at Income Inc/pub Income Inc/pub
    30 Sept Fy10 Fy10 FY09 FY09 Change 
Years in occupation   2010 £m £k £m £k %
< 1 year (new lets)   983 48 49 59 60 (19)
< 1 year (assignments)   206 15 73 14 68 7
1–5 years   2,371 172 73 168 71 2
Over 5 years   2,513 195 78 199 79 (2)
Total substantives   6,073 430 71 440 72 (2)
Non-substantives   747 26 35 40 54 (35)
Total   6,820 456 67 480 70 (5)
provision of financial support and rate of business f ailures declining
As we continue to improve the quality of the pub estate through investment and churn and the profitability  
of our licensees through training and business support, the cost of direct financial support provided to  
substantive licensees through special discounts and rent concessions reduced during the year to £15 million 
(2009 — £21 million) and is currently running at a monthly cost of just over £1 million. 
Furthermore we are encouraged that the rate of business failures continues to decline, reflected in a reduction 
in the cost of bad debts during the year to £2.1 million (2009 — £3.4 million), with the level of overdue balances 
down to £6.1 million (2009 — £6.9 million), representing less than 1% of turnover.
Our TMA programme was an effective tool which enabled us to take control of and revitalise good quality pubs 
where the business had been severely damaged. With the rate of business failures now declining and the overall 
quality of our licen sees significantly improved, we have been able to wind down the TMA programme. Having 
reached a peak of 218 pubs during the third quarter of 2009, we are pleased that there are no longer any pubs 
operating under TMAs and that the programme has now ceased. 4   Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010
18532.04 03/12/10 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s r eview 
(Incorporating the Business r eview)
Stability in the estate and strong demand for new leases and tenancies
We are encouraged by the level of stability amongst our successful licensees, with an average length of tenure in 
the substantive estate, excluding those who signed up during the past twelve months, of almost seven years. 
Furthermore, and despite the obvious challenges facing the pub industry, the quality of our pub estate and 
the fairness and flexibility of our suite of letting agreements continue to attract record numbers of applicants. 
During the year to 30 September 2010 we received more than 2,500 formal applications to t ake on a substantive 
agreement with ETI, an increase of over 60% compared to the prior year.
Estate profile and licensee profitability
Critical to the success of the ETI estate has been our ability to evolve with the changing requirements of pub 
goers. From the predominantly wet-led estate acquired from the brewers in the early 90’s, we have invested 
alongside our licensees to ensure that the pubs that make up the ETI estate rank amongst the best in the country.
The provision of great food has blossomed in our pubs and based upon a detailed analysis of almost 2,000 rent 
reviews agreed over the past two years, some 87% of our pubs now offer food, ranging from top quality bar snacks 
to the very best among gastro pubs and we estimate that food now represents 25% of turnover across our estate, 
an increase of over 20% in the past five years.
The availability of locally sourced cask ales, often restricted in managed houses and limited to their own products 
in brewer-owned estates, h as substantially increased. As recognised by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) in their 
recent dismissal of an appeal by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA), our work with the Society of Independent 
Brewers (SIBA) has played a significant role in the development of cask ale in the UK. Across the ETI estate, we 
now offer 1,450 locally produced cask ale brands from almost 400 different brewers.
Accommodation has also become more important in our pubs and we now have around 5,000 letting rooms with 
many offering top quality bed and breakfast facilities. 
It is this diversification which has enabled professional licensees not just to survive these difficult trading 
conditions but to thrive. As evidenced across the industry, whether in managed houses, free houses or leases and 
tenancies, the decline in the volume of beer sold in pubs is not matched by a decline in turnover or profitability 
as licensees develop a range of alternative income streams. We estimate that beer sales now repres ent 55% of 
turnover in our estate, down from 62% over the last five years.
puB ESTATE
Continued improvement in estate quality
The ETI pub estate now comprises 6,820 pubs valued at £5 billion, an average value of £732,000 per pub. We own 
the freehold of 96% by number and 99% by value of the pub estate and total annualised leasehold rent payable 
amounts to £11 million, including the impact of the recent sale and leaseback programme.
The quality of our pub estate is critical to the success of our business, attracting the most discerning and 
professional licensees and giving them the best opportunity to develop a profitable business. Whilst our 
acquisition programme remains on hold, we continue to invest in the estate, having spent £55 million in 2010, 
working alongside our licensees to improve facilities and long-term potential in more than 1,600 pubs.
A positive result of the weakness in the lease assignment market has been that new licensees are paying 
substantially less by w ay of lease premiums to outgoing licensees and therefore have more funds to invest in the 
future of the pub that they have acquired, again adding impetus to the continuing improvements in the quality of 
our pubs.     Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010   5
18532.04 03/12/10 Proof 6
pub values conservative and stabilising 
Every year, we carry out an independent valuation of our pub estate, analysing not only the current performance 
of every pub but also its future potential. This review confirmed the generally held view across the industry that 
the value of top quality pubs remains strong whilst continuing to be weak for pubs in poorer locations and with 
less potential. This view is further supported by the demonstrably stable income that we have earned from the 
vast majority of our estate, with some 5,000 pubs where licensees have been in occupation for more than one 
year delivering unchanged like-for-like net income in the past year.
As a result of this review, we have writ ten down the value of the estate by £103 million to £5 billion, 
the reduction in value including those pubs which we expect to sell or where we consider that changing 
circumstances and future income potential did not support the previous valuation.
profitable disposal of non-core pubs
We disposed of 579 non-core pubs during the year, generating proceeds of £166 million and a profit of  
£21 million, net of all disposal costs. During the year to 30 September 2009 the EBITDA generated by these  
pubs was £12 million. We expect our programme for disposing of non-core pubs to continue at a similar level 
during the coming year.
Successful sale and leaseback programme
Whilst not strictly disposals, given that we retain operating control and an earnings stream from these pubs, we 
have taken advantage of a robust property investment market in central London, selling a small number of high 
value pubs at auction with a 35 year lease back. These auctions have proved very successful and  during the year 
we sold 71 pubs, generating proceeds of £114 million, at an average rental yield of 6.4%. We expect to offer a 
similar level of pubs under our sale and leaseback programme in the coming year.
SECur E FINANCING STru CTur E AND ro BuST CASH FLoW
ETI has a secure, flexible and tax efficient financing structure comprising securitised bonds, corporate bonds and 
bank debt. At 30 September 2010, net debt was £3,305 million compared to £3,679 million at the beginning of 
the financial year.
Securitised and corporate bonds remain manageable, cost-effective and tax efficient
The £1,501 million of securitised bonds amortise over 21 years and currently attract a fixed rate of interest 
of 6.4%. The Group is £75 million ahead of the amortisation schedule and we expect to continue to make 
repayments of the floating rate notes in advance until they are repaid in full by 2012. The repayment of fixed rate 
notes commences in September 2013, at which time we expect dividend paym ents from the Unique subsidiary to 
cease as profits within Unique will be used to repay these notes.
The £1,185 million corporate bonds are non-amortising, are secured against ring-fenced portfolios of freehold 
pubs and attract a fixed rate of interest of 6.5% with the next scheduled maturities being £60 million in February 
2014 and £600 million in March 2018. Whilst we will repay the £60 million 2014 bond from cash flow, we would 
expect to refinance the £600 million 2018 bond on maturity, bearing in mind that it will always be secured on a 
portfolio of pubs with an up-to-date valuation of £1 billion and interest cover of two times.
Our securitised bonds and corporate bonds trade at a relatively small discount to par and we monitor the market 
to identify opportunities to repurchase them as appropriate. Overall, however, we consider that together they 
represent a secure, manageable, cost-effective and tax efficient part of our corporate financing structure which we 
would e xpect to retain for the long-term good of the business. 
Chief Executive’s r eview 
(Incorporating the Business r eview) 6   Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010
18532.04 03/12/10 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s r eview 
(Incorporating the Business r eview)
Successful refinancing of bank facility
We have reduced our bank debt by £216 million to £686 million during the past financial year, well on track to 
meet the requirements of our £625 million Forward Start Facility, which is fully committed and will commence 
in May 2011 when our existing facility matures. The new facility comprises a tranche of £206 million which 
expires in December 2012 and a tranche of £419 million which expires in December 2013. The overall facility 
will amortise at an amount of £25 million every six months commencing in December 2011. In May 2010 we 
cancelled our £275 million 6.66% interest rate swap and in September 2010 we cancelled our £350 million 4.89% 
interest rate swap.
A STro NG AND SuSTAI NABLE BuSINESS MoDEL
Tie aligns interests of landlord and tenants
The tied pub model provides a low cost of entry opportunity for entrepreneurial licensees to own and operate a 
pub business, supported by the expertise and resources of a brewer or pub company which owns the freehold of 
the pub. Tied tenants benefit from substantially lower fixed rental costs as a proportion of their total operating 
costs than is the case for free-of-tie tenants, and substantially lower capital risk than an individual freeholder. The 
objectives of the tenant and the landlord, both of whom want the pub to be successful, are demonstrably aligned 
by the shared interest in variable beer margin which reflects the performance of the pub.
The tied lease and tenancy business model has been approved time and again by the UK and European 
competition authorities. In its most recent ruling in October 2010 the OFT went further than in previous reviews 
and stated that it did not find evidence that the existence  of the tie disadvantaged tied tenants compared to 
those who are free of tie.
The OFT report was the culmination of over eighteen months of regulatory scrutiny of the industry that began 
with a report on pub companies by the Business and Enterprise Committee (BEC now renamed BISC) in May 2009 
and included a super complaint from the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA) and calls from various other campaign 
groups for an investigation into the operation of the tie. 
The tie offers substantial benefits to licensees that fully free-of-tie businesses do not enjoy
The debate about the tie has created a confused picture about the relationship between pub companies and their 
licensees and the impact of the tie on the profitability of both parties. In reality, what matters is the total cost to 
the licensee of renting a particular pub business, having evaluated the benefits offered by the pub company or 
brewer. The vast majority of our licensees recognise the quality of our pub estate, understan d and welcome the 
concept of fixed and variable rental costs and appreciate the many services and benefits that we offer.
In the ETI estate, some 18% of licensees are already free of tie for cider and 68% are not tied for wines, spirits 
and minerals. There are no ties whatsoever for the supply of food or any other services, although ETI has always 
been able to offer to licensees opportunities to purchase certain goods and services at excellent prices. We 
estimate that our most recent cost reduction initiative, working with the Carbon Trust, has the potential to reduce 
licensees’ utility bills by as much as 30%.
In other areas such as business services and training, the ETI team continue to excel. Our Winning in Local 
Markets training programme, now attended free-of-charge by almost 1,000 licensees, won the Supreme 
Champion award at this year’s National Industry Training Awards ceremony. Our Health and Safety package offers 
a total package of equipment testing and certificat ion, together with advice and training at a very attractive price, 
such that this package, which is mandatory for all new agreements, has now been adopted by almost half our 
licensees.    Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010   7
18532.04 03/12/10 Proof 6
Chief Executive’s r eview 
(Incorporating the Business r eview)
ETI’s new agreements provide additional flexibility to attract and retain the best licensees
In the past two years, we have worked with our licensee groups to develop new agreements offering greater 
flexibility for licensees, addressing issues such as standard and incentive discounts and free-of-tie options.
As a result of this evolution we have launched a new suite of agreements, both leases and tenancies, which 
seek to make ETI agreements the most attractive and competitive in the industry. Responding to those who feel 
that rent reviews can sometimes disadvantage the over-performer, we have introduced the option of 10 and 20 
year index-linked agreements with  no rent reviews. For those who seek greater freedom from the tie, we have 
continued the tie release options in respect of wines, spirits and minerals and extended these to cover all bottled 
beers, ciders and FABs. For most pubs, a tie release option will be available in respect of gaming machines and we 
are offering a free-of-tie guest ale option in respect of locally sourced cask ale supplied by brewer members  
of SIBA.
These options are now available in respect of all new agreements and, in addition, all existing ETI agreement 
holders will have the opportunity, at a date no later than their next rent review, to negotiate terms for a 
completely new agreement to incorporate their choice of these new flexible options.
New Code of practice exceeds all minimum standards 
Fifteen years ago, ETI was one of the first pub companies to publish a Code of Practice which sought to set out 
in clear terms the basis of the commercial relationship between the company and its licensees. This Co de of 
Practice has been regularly updated and enhanced and this year, in line with commitments made to the Secretary 
of State for Business, Innovation and Skills, we have issued a completely new Code of Practice. This Code exceeds 
all the conditions of the Industry Framework Code and was fully accredited in June 2010 by the British Institute  
of Innkeeping Benchmarking and Accreditation Service.
pubs remain at the heart of the community
For the vast majority of pub goers in the UK, the pub remains at the heart of the community, the ‘home of 
responsible drinking’, providing a safe and professionally supervised environment where adults can enjoy 
food, drink and good company. This vital part of British life and culture must be protected and nurtured and we 
welcome the appointment of Bob Neill MP as Minister for Community Pubs and look forward to working with him 
to ensure that this vital part of our heritage and local economy goes from strength to strength.
ou TLoo K
The econo mic environment, especially with regards to consumer confidence and spending, remains uncertain 
and increases in VAT and beer duty will continue to put additional pressure on beer volumes. However, the past 
year has demonstrated the resilience of the best pub operators in the industry and we believe that the profile of 
our estate, combined with the professionalism and flair of our licensees leaves us well placed to face whatever 
challenges the year ahead may bring.
As we seek to build upon the improvements of the past year, we remain confident that in the medium-term the 
business will be in a good position to deliver positive returns to shareholders. 
BoAr D CoMpo SITIoN
David George, Chief Financial Officer, has decided to retire after nearly 20 years in the role and will step down 
as a director at the conclusion of the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 20 January 2011. David has played 
a key role and has been central to the growth of Enterprise Inns since he joined the com pany at its formation in 
1991. As a result of the successful refinancing of our bank facilities in May, we have secured our medium-term 
financing requirements and it is now an opportune time for a successor to be appointed. The Board would like to 
thank him for his outstanding contribution and wish him all the best for the future. 8   Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010
18532.04 03/12/10 Proof 6
Neil Smith, age 45, will succeed David as Chief Financial Officer and, to ensure an orderly transition, will join  
the Company on 3 January 2011 as Chief Financial Officer Designate and will be appointed to the Board on  
20 January 2011. Neil, a qualified chartered accountant, is currently Finance Director of Compass Group UK & 
Ireland, which he joined in 2007. Prior to this he held senior finance positions with NTL Inc, Telewest Global Inc. 
and Somerfield plc. 
We are delighted that Neil has agreed to join Enterprise and very much look forward to working with him and to 
welcoming hi m to our Board. We are pleased to have been able to attract an individual of Neil’s calibre and his 
many years of finance experience within consumer facing businesses will prove invaluable to the Company.
In addition, Jo Stewart will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting having 
served as an independent non-executive director since May 2001 and for most of that time either as Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee or as Senior Independent Director. He has made a most valuable contribution to our 
development and we thank him most warmly for all that he has done for the Company over the past nine years.
We intend to issue an Interim Management Statement on 20 January 2011.
 
G E Tuppen CBE
15 November 2010
Chief Executive’s r eview 
(Incorporating the Business r eview) Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010  01
tilbury 725 Acres
Scotland
 1 ,000 Acres
Seabed
 4,500 Acres
Our extensive freehold asset  
base allows us to create value 
opport unities which will 
complement our core ports 
business and create conditions 
necessary for growth in changing 
markets. The key elements for 
delivering value are the skills of 
our people, targeted investments 
and our asset base.
a clear inveStment propoSition
a rich aSSet baSe continued growth 
in our portS buSineSS
Our strategy of investing in  
supply chain opportunities 
together with improvements in 
manpower skills and efficiencies 
gives growth potential from a 
secure business base.
expanding tilbury Project Next has the potential to 
expand Tilbury’s warehousing 
capacity by up to 20%, helping 
to underpin volume growth within 
our largest port facility.
making progreSS 
in renewableS
Attracting manufacturing facilities 
for offshore renewables will add 
value to our land assets and port 
operations in Scotland.
planning conSentS
The development of consented 
Biomass plants will allow us to 
invest in materials handling 
solutions for volume growth, 
adding value to our  land assets. 
prudent Financial 
management 
Through difficult economic times, 
core net debt has reduced due to 
the stability of our ports business. 
As we identify opportunities to 
expand, we will finance these 
prudently against commitments, 
delivering returns for the business 
and our shareholders.
regeneration
By managing and developing  
our assets on the waterfront and 
working in partnership on 
regeneration, we can add value 
and income to our property assets 
and help to close the value gap 
between the city and the 
Waterfront, creating a major 
destination in Edinburgh.
renewable energy 
Our ports and land assets have the 
potential to develop manufacturing 
and logistics centres of excellence 
for the offshore renewables industry.
Our plans to provide renewable heat 
and power will make an important 
contribution to sustainable lower 
carbon cities in Scotland. 2 ImmuPharma plc Report and Consolidated Financial Statements December 2010
Report of the Chairman, 
the Chief  Executive Ofﬁcer, and the President 3 ImmuPharma plc Report and Consolidated Financial Statements December 2010 3
Report of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and  
the President
Annual Review
We are pleased to report on a year of steady, positive 
progress for ImmuPharma. Our lead compound, 
Lupuzor™, continues to make progress with Cephalon, Inc 
(Cephalon), who took an exclusive, worldwide license to 
Lupuzor™ during 2009. Furthering the work undertaken 
in our Phase IIb study, Cephalon are conducting a Phase 
IIb study in lupus patients in the US and Europe. Our 
promising cancer program has made important strides 
forward with an ongoing Phase I/IIa study with further 
results expected in 2011. Furthermore, the rest of our 
development portfolio, our continued relationship with 
the Centre Nationale Recherche Scientiﬁque (CNRS) and 
our strong cash position provide us with a solid basis for 
future growth.
During 2010, Cephalon has moved forward with its 
comprehe nsive development plan for Lupuzor™. 
Our own Phase IIb study showed Lupuzor™ achieve 
statistically signiﬁcant improvement in the moderate to 
severe patient sub-group with 62% of patients taking 
Lupuzor™ in addition to steroids or other “standard 
care” treatment, improving their SLEDAI score (Systemic 
Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index) by more 
than 4 points compared to 41% of patients who were 
taking only steroids or other “standard care” treatment. 
Cephalon is conducting a further Phase IIb study in 
lupus patients in the US and Europe in a trial designed 
to allow US-based investigators and the FDA to evaluate 
Lupuzor™ as a treatment for lupus before commencing 
a Phase III clinical trial. A large number of centres are 
involved. The data generated from this trial will be 
part of the package to be submitted to the FDA and 
other regulatory authorities for approval. According to 
Cephalon, interim analysis of this Phase IIb trial will be 
available  during 3Q 2011. We are delighted with Cephalon 
as a partner and seek to support its development plans.
2010 was a time of exciting progress for our anti-cancer 
nucleolin/nucleophosmin antagonist (“Nucant”) peptide 
programme. Having received approval from AFSSAPS 
(Agence Francaise de Securite Sanitaire des Produits de 
Sante), we began our Phase I/IIa study in 3Q 2010. Early 
results from this ongoing trial indicate that around half of 
the cancer patients who have undergone treatment with 
IPP-204106 are in stable condition without any other drug 
treatment. The trial is taking place in two hospitals in Paris 
and one hospital in Dijon in France and is expected to 
complete in the coming months. We hope to start a Phase 
IIb programme later this year in patients with glioblastoma 
(brain tumour), hormone-resistant prostrate cancer and 
pancreatic cancer. 
Our strategic objectives for 2011 and beyond centre on 
the maintenance of a positive relationship with Cephalon 
for Lupuz or™, the focus on the development of our 
cancer programme, and the development of the rest of 
our asset base. We also seek to value and build upon our 
key relationship with the CNRS. This is to be achieved 
with solid ﬁnancial management and careful control 
of expenditure.
Following the two notable awards received in 2009, 
ImmuPharma received the Best Drug Development 
Company in Europe award at The New Economy 
Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Awards 2010. We are 
proud to have our achievements recognised in this way. 
Additionally, we have been working to raise ImmuPharma’s 
proﬁle in the investment community and strive to maintain 
an effective dialogue with our investors. We have 
therefore been pleased to have built upon our blue-chip 
investor shareholder base, including M&G Investments, 
ING, Gartmore, Rensburg Sheppards, Pictet, Aviva and 
Standard Life.
The Company continues to strive to incorporate best 
practice corporate governance guidelines for AIM 
companies in  a manner that is most appropriate and 
effective for the size and complexity of ImmuPharma. The 
Quoted Companies Alliance published new guidelines 
for AIM companies in September 2010. The Corporate 
Governance section included later in this annual report 
provides more information regarding how ImmuPharma 
applies these guidelines.
ImmuPharma is looking forward to another promising year 
in 2011. The Board would like to thank its shareholders 
for their ongoing support as well as its scientiﬁc advisors 
and the Centre Nationale de la Recherche Scientiﬁque in 
France for their collaboration.
Richard Warr 
Chairman
Dimitri F . Dimitriou 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Dr Robert Zimmer 
President  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CUSTOMER/MARKET                                         OPERATIONAL
FINANCIAL                                        INDUSTRY POSITION
CUSTOMER/MARKET                                         OPERATIONAL
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 02
CHAIRMAN AND  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
STRATEGIC PERSPECTIVES
We are proud to be the leading provider of mobile satellite 
communications services, serving mission critical communications 
needs where terrestrial networks don’t go or are, at times, 
ineffective. Our strategy has evolved over the years as we have 
seen the number of data applications used by our customers 
increase, the size and cost of the terminals dramatically reduce 
and the spectrum efﬁ ciency and throughput of our satellites 
greatly increase.
In the chart above we show how our strategic roadmap links with 
four focus areas across the business, working together to deliver 
shareholder value.
We have continued to lay the groundwork in the past year for 
driving additional growth opportunities in the future to maintain 
our leadership position over the next decade.
We consider four perspectives when we plan for the future. First 
and foremost is our focus on customers and their diverse needs 
in the markets we serve. Secon d, we look internally at how we are 
positioning ourselves operationally to efﬁ ciently and effectively 
service those needs. Third, we look at our ability to embed and 
We aim to deliver superior shareholder value based on a 
strategy of pursuing multiple paths to growth. We underpin 
this by a rigorous focus on customer needs, as well as the 
ongoing efﬁ ciency of our operations, the preservation of our 
position as market leader, and on a disciplined assessment 
of the ﬁ nancial returns.
ANDREW SUKA W ATY
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
IN THIS SECTION
  Strategic perspectives – 02
  Business review – 06
  Review of operations – 09
1
OUR MULTIPLE PATHS TO GROWTH…
2
HELP US ACHIEVE OUR MISSION…
Our mission
To serve mission 
critical communications 
needs where terrestrial 
networks don’t go or
are ineffective.
1979: GLOBAL L-BAND 
ESTABLISHED FRANCHISE
2014: GLOBAL KA-BAND 
SATELLITES AND NETWORK
Government 
& Military
Aero passenge r 
connectivity
VSAT services 
Maritime & Energy
ATC 
Handheld voice
Low data rate 
services
Managed
Services 
Capacity 
leasing
Government
& Military 
UAVs
Aero passenger 
connectivity ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 03
sustain the leadership in our offer. Finally, we do a full and 
disciplined assessment of what returns we can deliver to our 
shareholders as we tackle the marketplace opportunities.
With a focus on these four perspectives, we announced a 
new investment programme. This programme has become our 
next-generation Inmarsat-5 (‘I-5’) satellites and services which 
we have named Global Xpress™. Global Xpress (‘GX’) is targeting 
a US$1.4bn existing market opportunity. This US$1.2bn capital 
programme will launch new mobile broadband satellite services 
signiﬁ cantly faster than our current available services. We will be 
the ﬁ rst to offer true global mobile VSAT -type services. This will 
open up broadband opportunities in the maritime, energy an d 
government sectors. With this investment we are targeting our 
existing customers and distribution channel with services many 
are already using or demanding for the future as their bandwidth 
needs grow.
In our review of the multiple paths we are pursuing to achieve our 
targeted growth, the Global Xpress programme is expected to 
start commercial operations over two satellites in 2013. In 2014, 
we expect to have a global service operating over the three 
satellites. These satellites are being built by the world leader 
in this Ka-band satellite technology, Boeing Satellite Systems 
International, Inc. (‘Boeing’). We are targeting US$500m of 
annual revenues, ﬁ ve years after we offer a global service.
INMARSAT PLC BOARD
The Board is collectively responsible for the 
long-term success of the Group and determines 
the nature and extent of the risks the Group 
should take to achieve its strategic objectives.
AND DRIVE OUR STRATEGIC SUCCESSES
3
  We are driving growth in  our 
established BGAN, FleetBroadband 
and SwiftBroadband services with new 
applications, delivered to new industries, 
in targeted geographic areas. 
  Continued investment in the L-band 
through Alphasat and the development of 
the Global Xpress platform are designed 
to accelerate cash ﬂ ow growth as 
revenues increase.
  With the launch of our IsatPhone Pro 
global handheld phone we can now offer 
unrivalled voice quality and reliability for 
years to come.
  We will maintain our L-band network with 
satellites purchased on a rolling basis to 
offer a range of new and enhanced 
Inmarsat products and services.
  Highly reliable comms for data transmission on the move
  Bundled value voice
  Competitive reliable handheld service
  Premium services – good value
  Innovative services
  T o deliver superior total shareholder returns by increasing 
revenue growth on a largely ﬁ xed-cost base
  Build sustainable cash retur ns to shareholders
  Prudent capex planning
  Highest reliability standards
  Accelerated revenue growth in our core business and new services
  Fixed-cost base through primarily wholesale approach and careful 
capex planning
  Professionally rewarding, challenging and enjoyable place 
to work
  Our position as the leading mobile satellite services 
(‘MSS’) provider
  Being technology leader in MSS
  Providing a broad range of leading innovative services
  Offering premium services – at good value
CUSTOMER/
MARKET
OPERATIONAL
INDUSTRY 
POSITION
FINANCIAL
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 04
CHAIRMAN AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
CONTINUED
Whilst Global Xpress complements our L-band franchise, it can 
also provide an upgrade path to existing customers who may 
develop higher bandwidth needs, and affords them the 
opportunity to migrate over time from existing servic es to the 
new GX services. Some customers may also choose to use 
both services simultaneously in the future through hybrid 
packages we plan to offer. With Global Xpress we also intend 
to pre-sell some of the capacity, as most Fixed Satellite operators 
do today. In the ﬁ rst demonstration of this we have signed 
Boeing as a distributor with a signiﬁ cant commitment for capacity 
on the Inmarsat-5 (‘I-5’) constellation representing 10% of the 
planned income in the ﬁ rst ﬁ ve years of operations.
Of course, we remain well-positioned to continue growing 
our core L-band franchise as well. With three generations of 
satellite constellations in operation, another one currently being 
built – Alphasat, which will operate in the L-band spectrum – 
we continue to invest for the future here as well. We have also 
recently launched new services such as our global handheld 
phone, IsatPhone Pro. New low data rate services and the 
next generation safety services are examples  of more to come. 
We intend to maintain our L-band network, and will purchase 
new satellites for this network on a rolling procurement basis, 
which means that they will be replaced over time rather than 
in a concentrated investment period. This allows a smoother 
investment and cash-ﬂ ow proﬁ le that beneﬁ ts our capital 
requirements.
The chart on the previous page reﬂ ects the different market 
opportunities we see for our business. These all build upon a 
successful broadband business which has been developed over 
the last ﬁ ve years. Our Broadband Global Area Network (‘BGAN’) 
business was ﬁ rst introduced to land mobile users and then 
expanded into FleetBroadband services for maritime users and 
SwiftBroadband for aeronautical users. We see more growth 
ahead for this platform as we beneﬁ t from more applications, 
penetrate new industries and target speciﬁ c geographic areas.
An important new addition to our L-band satellite constellation 
will be the Alp hasat satellite, being built by Astrium, which 
is currently due for a late 2012 delivery. This project involves 
us as the commercial partner for the European Space Agency 
(‘ESA’) and our investment in this satellite will provide additional 
capacity and redundancy, so enhancing our L-band services. We 
are already in advanced discussions with manufacturers for a 
range of new and enhanced Inmarsat products and services to 
work on the Alphasat platform and our existing L-band satellites. 
With this investment we give our customers even further 
assurance that their existing services will be supported well into 
the next decade, protecting their investments – something most 
of our competitors cannot currently match.
T wo new offerings, which are supported on our L-band satellites 
are our global handheld satellite phone, the IsatPhone Pro, and 
our satellite low data rate (‘SLDR’) services.
ALPHASAT 
SATELLITE
L- b a n d
An important new addition to our 
L-band satellite c onstellation will 
be the Alphasat satellite, being 
built by Astrium, which is currently 
due for a late 2012 delivery.
FUTURE 
INVESTMENT
Inmars at - 5
Global Xpress will be delivered 
over our next-generation I-5 
spacecraft, built in the US by 
Boeing, the world leader in 
Ka-band satellite technology. 
INMARSAT-2  LAUNCHED 1990-92   
~ 2025
INMARSAT-3  LAUNCHED 1996-98  
INMARSAT-4  LAUNCHED 2005-08   
ALPHASAT   FUTURE LAUNCH 2013
~ 2023
~ 2018
~ 2014
FUTURE PROOF
Our latest generation of award-winning Inmarsat-4 satellites, 
supplemented by our new Alphasat I-XL satellite, will continue 
to deliver a range of L-band services to customers well into the 2020s.
The Global Xpress network will be delivered in the Ka-band via the 
new series of Inmarsat-5 spacecraft being built by Boeing in the U.S. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 05
which would result in US$368.8m of payments for Phase I (within 
18 months) and US$115m per annum (with a 3% annual escalator) 
for Phase II . After signiﬁ cant planning for this, we are now ready 
to make the required changes over the next few years to protect 
our customers from the effects of the terrestrial implementation. 
Of course, we will incur costs, particularly in the ﬁ rst few years of 
this development and these are more than adequately covered 
by our income from the agreement. However, assuming 
LightSquared completes its implementation, we do expect this 
to represent a steady income stream for the future. Also, we are 
exploring similar hybrid activities through our S-band satellite 
programme in Europe and other activities in our existing L-band 
system. As a business, we continue to explore optionality in our 
business that can deliver incremental value to shareholders.
In January 2010, we successfully completed the acquisition of 
Segovia, which provides secure internet protocol (‘IP’) managed 
solutions and services to government defence users. Segovia is 
now part of the ﬁ nancial reporting g roup of our Stratos segment. 
Our decision to acquire this business is to position us more 
deeply with key customers and offer integrated edge to edge 
solutions using our network and other technologies. Segovia 
met our expectations in its ﬁ rst year in the Group, and our other 
operating government subsidiary, Stratos Government Services, 
saw strong growth in the year as well. We continue to work 
closely with all our distributors to proﬁ tably grow together in 
the diverse markets we and they serve.
As part of our ongoing strategic decision review, we look at 
opportunities to proﬁ tably grow our business and manage the 
risks we face. At the time of our IPO we laid out a roadmap with 
multiple paths to accelerate our growth. Achieving the growth 
targets also demonstrated our ability to leverage our ﬁ xed 
cost base to accelerate cash ﬂ ow growth as revenues increase. 
With an established and successful track record for strategic 
development, we are well positioned to  achieve more in the 
coming years.
We have seen our land voice revenues decline over the years and 
the introduction of IsatPhone Pro is our opportunity to reverse 
this and grow voice revenues over the coming years. The 
IsatPhone Pro is a small handset, with a ruggedised design and 
clear voice quality for the special remote environment market we 
serve globally. It has the longest battery life in the industry and 
the lowest retail price for the handset. Initial sales have been 
positive and we expect to take a 10% share in the established 
market within the next two years. Although this market segment 
is already very competitive with offerings from regional and 
global providers, we believe the voice quality and reliability we 
can offer for many years to come is unmatchable by our current 
competitors. In a recent independent survey, the IsatPhone Pro 
was rated the best-performing product in the market compared 
to handsets from two other MSS providers, and is being offered 
at  the lowest price.
The SLDR services referred to above were ﬁ rst highlighted in last 
year’ s annual report, when we commented about the opportunities 
we saw through expanding our services in the telemetry market 
which would drive more trafﬁ c onto our network without us 
having to incur any signiﬁ cant investment – either capital or 
operational. This vision has started to provide a revenue beneﬁ t as 
the number of applications using telemetry units has increased. 
Our investment in SkyWave Mobile Communications (‘SkyWave’) 
came at a good time in its development and for our expectations 
of market growth in that sector. We also have seen development 
with a BGAN-based telemetry service which will be offered 
through all of our Distribution Partners.
Another important development in the year was in the area 
of satellite/terrestrial hybrid networks. In December 2007 we 
signed an agreement to work with another satellite operator , 
LightSquared, to enable the reband ing and efﬁ cient reuse of 
L-band radio spectrum covering North America. It was intended 
this would provide ﬂ exibility and operational terms to support 
the development and deployment of 4G ancillary terrestrial 
component (‘ATC’) services by LightSquared. In August 2010 
we received notice from LightSquared triggering Phase I of 
this agreement and in January 2011 we received Phase II notice. 
Payments are now to be made to us on a quarterly basis, 
Our ﬁ rst global handheld phone, IsatPhone Pro, was launched in 
2010 and joins our existing BGAN service in the land market. 
A BGAN-based telemetry service is being developed for the monitoring 
of remote assets, such as electricity sub-stations.
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 06
CHAIRMAN AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
CONTINUED
BUSINESS 
REVIEW
2010 was another strong year of revenue and proﬁ t growth for 
Inmarsat. Importantly however, 2010 also marks a sig niﬁ cant 
milestone for Inmarsat as a publicly listed company – the end of 
our ﬁ fth year as a listed stock. This is important because in 2005, 
when we listed our shares on the London Stock Exchange, we set 
a target for ourselves. That target was to take a company which 
had historically grown revenue at a 2% to 3% rate and accelerate 
that growth. Initially we targeted a 5% to 6% compound annual 
growth rate (‘CAGR’) and 18 months later increased that target 
to 6% to 8% CAGR.
Five years on, we can now proudly report to you that we 
exceeded our goals signiﬁ cantly. We not only achieved 9% 
compound annual growth in revenues during this period, but we 
also achieved 13% growth in EBITDA and 28% growth in pre-tax 
proﬁ t. We also increased our dividend by 7.4% CAGR during this 
period. This is an impressive achievement for our staff and one for 
which they should be congratulated. This tremendous result for 
our shareholders complemented the continued high satisfaction  
levels of our staff and a dramatic expansion of next generation 
services for our Distribution Partners and customers. In other 
words, in achieving this growth, we invested and laid the 
foundation for further progress.
Of course, we need to continue to look ahead. In mid-2010 we 
announced a new set of ﬁ ve-year targets for Inmarsat and much 
more. Again, we’ve set a ﬁ ve-year revenue growth target for our 
Inmarsat Global MSS revenues of 5% to 7% (CAGR through 2014 
with 2009 as the base year). With this growth, on our largely 
ﬁ xed-cost base, we would expect a higher rate of proﬁ t growth.
In addition, to underline our conﬁ dence in our future, and to 
highlight the strength of our balance sheet and cash ﬂ ows, we 
are recommending a full-year dividend of 22.69 cents (US$). This 
will bring the total dividend payable for 2010 to 36.69 cents (US$) 
per share, an increase of 10% on the total dividend paid in 2009. 
We have also announced that we expect to sustain at  least 10% 
dividend growth for the subsequent two ﬁ nancial years 2011 
and 2012.
We have continued our focus of ensuring a healthy ﬁ nancial 
position for the Group and during 2010 we actively pursued 
several strategically beneﬁ cial ﬁ nancial transactions which have 
helped our balance sheet and provided competitive debt 
arrangements for us. Further information on these are referred 
to in the CFO section on page 19.
Our healthy ﬁ nancial position has been supported again by 
good results for last year. Group EBITDA for 2010 increased by 
17% over 2009. Our EBITDA margin has increased to 59% 
for 2010 compared with 57% for 2009, helped by the inclusion 
of revenue from our Cooperation Agreement with LightSquared 
which started to be received in August 2010.
T otal Group revenues for 2010 increased by 12.9% compared with 
2009. For our two operating segments Inmarsat Global reported 
a 10% increase in revenues to US$764.1m with Stratos up by 
11.3% to US$716.8m. After elim inating intercompany sales 
of US$309.3m, total Group revenues were US$1,171.6m. We 
maintained tight control of our costs during the year, with total 
Group net operating costs for 2010 increasing by only 7%, with 
the increase principally related to Segovia which wasn’t part of 
the Group in 2009.
Our strategy remains focused on providing services to meet 
mission critical needs where other networks generally don’t go – 
on land, at sea and in the air. Our commitment to safety services 
at sea and in the air also remains, with signiﬁ cant work occurring 
to take our Global Maritime Distress and Safety System 
(‘GMDSS’) and aero safety to the next generation platforms, 
ensuring the availability of these services beyond 2020.
Signiﬁ cant work has been taking place to prepare our next-generation 
platforms to support the Global Maritime Distress and Safety System 
(GMDSS) as well as aero safety.
9% COMPOUND 
ANNUAL GROWTH
2006- 201 0
We achieved 9% compound 
annual growth  in revenues during 
this period.
DIVIDEND 
INCREASE
+7 .4 %
We also increased our dividend 
by 7.4% CAGR over the same 
ﬁ ve years from 2006.
GROWTH IN 
EBITDA
+13%
At the same time, we achieved 
a 13% growth in EBITDA, 
from 2006-2010.
GROWTH IN 
PRE-TAX PROFIT
+28%
And ﬁ ve-year growth, from 
2006-2010 in pre-tax proﬁ t 
of 28%.  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 07
The IsatPhone Pro is a small 
handset with a ruggedised design 
and clear voice quality for the 
special remote environment market 
we serve globally. 
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 08
Inmarsat crowned ‘Best T elecoms Company’ in Britain
Management Today magazine named Inmarsat as ‘Best 
Telecoms Company’ in its prestigious Britain’s Most Admired 
Companies Awards, beating 2009 winner Vodafone. 
BGAN recognised for outstanding achievement
BGAN won the CommsMEA 2010 ‘Most Innovative Non-Voice 
Service’ award, recognising Inmarsat ’ s outstanding achievement 
in the telecom sector in the Middle East and Africa. 
Royal Academy honours Inmarsat’s engineering innovation
The 41st Royal Academy of Engineering MacRobert Award for 
Innovation was presented for the pioneering development 
of the I-4 satellites and BGAN family of services.
Best satellite service provider for second year 
Inmarsat was awarded ‘Best Satellite Service Provider’ by 
Samena for its leadership and excellence in the telecoms 
sectors of South Asia, the Middle East and North Africa.
505 Emergency Calling wins Safety At Sea International award
The free FleetBroadband 505 Emergency Calling won the Safety 
At Sea International Award for helping seafarers in distress 
to connect directly to a rescue centre anywhere in the world.
FleetBroadband 150 lifts electronics innovation award
Sail Magazine, which reports cruising and sailing news, picked 
FleetBroadband 150 as the most innovative new electronics 
product in its annual awards.
CHAIRMAN  AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
CONTINUED
Lord Browne of Madingley presents the Royal Academy of Engineering’s 
prestigious MacRobert Award for Innovation to the Inmarsat team 
behind the development of the I-4 satellites and the BGAN family of 
3G broadband services.
Helene Bazzi, one of our senior managers for the Middle East and 
Africa, receives the CommsMEA award for ‘Most Innovative 
Non-Voice Service’.
We continued to support critical humanitarian and emergency 
activities during the year. In the earthquake disaster in Haiti, our 
terminals were deployed through organisations we support 
charitably, such as Télécoms Sans Frontières and the ITU’ s 
Framework for Cooperation in Emergencies programme, 
together with numerous aid and other NGO bodies. In the ﬂ oods 
in Pakistan and Australia and in countless other situations, we 
were there with our distribution partners providing vital support 
and monitoring system performance and capacity 24x7. As in 
previous year s, we have had another year of the highly reliable 
performance that our customers have come to expect from 
us with an overall satellite and network availability of 99.99%.
This has been another highly successful year and our work 
has been recognised by a number of independent bodies. 
A highlight in June 2010 was the recognition of our engineering 
expertise with the award of Britain’ s most prestigious prize for 
innovation. The 41st Royal Academy of Engineering MacRobert 
Award was presented to four of our senior managers in the 
business: Eugene Jilg, Franco Carnevale, Alan Howell and 
Marcus Vilaça. The award recognised the pioneering 
development of the Inmarsat-4 satellites and the Broadband 
Global Area Network (‘BGAN’) family of services. In the UK 
publication ‘Management T oday’, Inmarsat was cited as ‘Best 
T elecoms Company’ in its prestigious Britain’ s Most Admired 
Companies Awards. Other notable awards included being voted 
for the second consecutive  year by Samena as the ‘Best Satellite 
Service Provider of the Year’ in recognition of our leadership and 
excellence in the telecoms sectors of South Asia, the Middle East 
and North Africa.
We have continued our work with industry and government 
on the future growth of the UK space industry. The Right 
Honourable David Willetts, MP , Minister of State for Science 
and Universities, visited our ofﬁ ces in November 2010 to present 
a new government report highlighting the growing strength of 
the UK space sector entitled ‘Size and Health of the UK Space 
Industry’. The report shows that the British space industry has 
grown by nearly 8% through the recession and is now worth over 
£7.5bn to the economy and that against the backdrop of difﬁ cult 
economic conditions, the space industry has maintained its 
momentum, as it recorded an average growth signiﬁ cantly 
ahead of the national GDP growth of 0.3%.
We are delighted to have recently received a number 
of high-proﬁ  le industry and consumer awards, including:
2010 Awards CUSTOMER/MARKET OPERA TIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 09
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INMARSAT GLOBAL
We own and operate three satellite constellations comprising 
11 satellites, which have more than 160 years of in-orbit life. 
Operating at geosynchronous orbit approximately 36,000km 
(22,500 miles) above the Earth, our satellites are positioned 
in nine orbital locations, so offering seamless coverage of our 
services around the world. Celebrating the 20th year of service 
for one of the Inmarsat-2 satellites during 2010 was a great 
achievement, as its operational life was designed to be only 
ten years.
As a wholesaler of satellite airtime, Inmarsat Global sells its 
services through distributors who engage directly with the 
customer or through their own channel of service providers. 
The acquisition of Stratos in 2009 provides us with a direct 
distribution  channel although we remain committed to a 
primarily indirect distribution model, which is supported by 
a fair channel management policy.
We have continued to invest in our business to support our 
distributors and service providers through a variety of ways. 
For our distributors we have increased the funding we make 
to our Connect Programme which co-invests alongside them and 
supports their marketing activities. The Connect Accreditation 
Programme we established last year is well embedded 
in how we work with our service providers. We now have 
57 bronze, 22 silver and 25 gold accredited service providers 
and their feedback is that their deeper relationship with 
Inmarsat has provided customer beneﬁ ts such as improved 
training and greater access to Inmarsat staff to support their 
business activities.
We face increasing competition from other satellite providers 
and we have been working hard with our partners to ensure 
they remain focused on distributing Inmarsat services.  VSAT 
operators continue to target the higher data rate end of our 
business. Our decision to launch our own Ka-band satellites has 
already been welcomed by many partners and their customers, 
who have expressed interest to use this higher capacity 
capability when it is available. We also encounter competition 
from other MSS satellite operators. We look to combat their 
activities through the reliability of our services, supported by our 
Inmarsat-4 satellites which are expected to be operational well 
into the 2020s. We also have the Alphasat satellite being built 
which will provide network resilience and additional capacity 
over Europe and the Middle East. We will be planning for our 
Inmarsat-6 satellites in due course. The longevity and reliability 
of the services we provide to customers is an important factor 
in their decision-making to choose Inmarsat.
Over the last year or so in particular, we have seen an 
increased migration from our older services to our broadband 
se rvices. We have seen, as expected, trafﬁ c initially falling 
whilst customers understand and test the more signiﬁ cant 
capabilities of our broadband services. We believe that once 
awareness and usage becomes more familiar and they become 
more reliant on these newer services, we will see an increase 
in trafﬁ c volumes.
We regularly review how we price our services, seeking to 
understand what the customer needs, and have introduced 
new pricing packages to drive usage of our broadband services 
across all our sectors of land mobile, maritime and aeronautical.
Where there are opportunities to do so, we look for additional 
revenue generating activities. Examples of these are in our 
satellite operations division, where the skills we have in 
operating our own satellites have been successfully translated 
into providing similar services for the control and launch of 
third party satellites. We started operating the ﬁ rst of these 
for UK-based Avanti Communications, with anot her agreement 
in place to also operate their second satellite. In 2010, we also 
provided launch services for both Astrium and the Indian Space 
Organisation for a number of spacecraft.
REVIEW 
OF OPERATIONS
STRATEGIC DELIVERY
Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, 
operational, industry position and ﬁ nancial 
strength continue to drive the business forward. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 10
MARITIME
 In 2010, revenues from 
the maritime sector were 
US$360.6m, a marginal 
increase over 2009. Data 
services grew by 4% with 
voice revenues reducing as 
expected. There is migration 
away from our older maritime 
services, especially Inmarsat-B 
which is due for closure at the 
end of 2014, to our 
FleetBroadband services 
which have cheaper tariffs 
and higher transmission 
speeds. This accounts for 
some of the reduction in 
revenues, particularly for voice 
revenues. Ship owners and 
vessel captains scrutinise 
opportunities for cost control 
and we have seen a  trend 
of moving to using voice over 
internet protocol (‘VOIP’)
services and email rather than 
making traditional voice calls. 
During 2011, we will launch 
FleetPhone for the maritime 
market, as part of the 
IsatPhone family of products, 
and expect to capture some 
of this voice market again.
Our FleetBroadband services 
are now accepted and 
endorsed in the maritime 
market. The MSUA, which 
is a non-proﬁ t organisation 
promoting the interests of 
mobile satellite users 
worldwide, gave an Innovation 
Award for our FleetBroadband 
service, recognising the 
beneﬁ ts of this service to 
the maritime market. 
FleetBroadband 150 has made 
a strong start, having only 
been launched in mid-2009, 
and is successfully targeting 
the leisure and ﬁ shing markets 
which are new market 
segments for us. In 2010, 
across the range of three 
services – FB500, FB250 
and FB150, we added more 
than 10,000 FleetBroadband 
terminals. This is more than 
double the number added 
in 2009  and is the fastest 
growing maritime service 
in Inmarsat’s history. 
FleetBroadband 150 was also 
recognised in early 2010 in 
Sail Magazine’s annual awards 
as the most innovative new 
electronics product.
In September 2010 it was 
announced that AP Moller-
Maersk, the world’s largest 
shipping company, had 
conﬁ rmed an order to more 
than double the number of 
vessels it operates with 
FleetBroadband connectivity. 
This retroﬁ t order of an 
additional 200 vessels to the 
existing 170 already equipped, 
represented commercial 
shipping’s largest ever 
commitment to Inmarsat 
maritime services. The roll-out 
of the service is going well 
and almost all vessels are now 
equipped. During the year 
there was strong endorsement 
of FleetBroadband through 
industry awards and its use in 
challenging maritime events 
such as the Velux 5 Oceans 
round-the-world solo yacht 
race. We are also delighted 
to have been selected again 
by the organisers of the Volvo 
Ocean Race to p rovide the 
communications throughout 
the round-the-world challenge 
for the 2011-12 event. For the 
ﬁ rst time we are acting as Race 
Partner. All raceboats will have 
the use of FB500, FB150 and 
Inmarsat C. Our handheld 
satellite phone – IsatPhone 
Pro – will be included as part 
of the safety kit.
MSS REVENUE 2010 MARITIME REVENUE 2010
 Maritime 50%  Other 50% Voice 27%  Data 73%
More than 10,000 FleetBroadband terminals were added in 
2010, making it the fastest growing maritime service in the 
Company’s history.
CHAIRMAN AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
CONTINUED CUSTOMER/MARKET OPERA TIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 11
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
  During 2011 we will 
launch a new FleetPhone 
for the maritime market.
  We added over 10,000 
FleetBroadband terminals 
during the year .
  Our FleetBroadband 
services are endorsed 
in the maritime market.
  Maritime dat a revenues 
continued to grow.
Since the launch of 
FleetBroadband, we have 
explored how to enhance the 
service offering to customers. 
We recently announced our 
intention to launch a dynamic 
telemetry service on all 
FleetBroadband services 
to enable cost-effective 
transmission of constant 
low-data communications. 
It will support a range of 
applications, such as engine 
management systems on 
deep-sea tankers sending 
real-time data to shore-based 
specialists and also provide 
vessel monitoring systems 
for ﬁ sheries protection.
Our heritage as the only 
provider of satellite 
communications services for 
GMDSS remains important 
for us. We are committed 
to extending GMDSS on 
FleetBroadband in the future 
so that we can continue to 
provide mariners with the 
reliability and security they 
need in a distress situation. 
Our ‘505’ emergency calling 
service, which has already 
been used over 100 times 
since its launch in autumn 
2009, introduced a new 
innovation in  safety 
communications. The short 
code dialling facility provides 
direct access to Maritime 
Rescue Co-ordination Centres 
around the world. Receiving 
a prestigious International 
Safety at Sea Award 
recognising the ‘505’ service 
was a great accolade.
Easy-to-install FleetBroadband 150 
terminals are ideal for coastal 
merchant and small leisure vessels.
Inmarsat has signed as 
Race Partner to the 
Volvo Ocean Race 2011-12.
Compact FleetBroadband 150 now makes possible the use of deep-sea 
technology on smaller vessels such as ﬁ shing trawlers.
FleetBroadband featured in Discovery Channel’s TV documentary series, 
Deadliest Catch, starring Sig Hanson, skipper of the Northwestern.
STRATEGIC DELIVERY
Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, 
operational, industry position and ﬁ nancial 
strength continue to drive the business forward. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 12
 Revenues from our land 
mobile sector were 
US$153.7m, an increase of 
4.9% compared wi th 2009. 
Data service revenues grew 
just over 6% to US$146.4m 
with voice services continuing 
to trend down as expected 
as our Mini M service comes 
to the end of its life.
Our land mobile business is 
diverse, with revenues coming 
from many different 
segments. Government, 
media, oil and gas exploration 
and aid agencies are all key 
sectors for us. Our user 
groups are susceptible to 
events such as natural 
disasters and military activities 
and these can cause spiking 
of use of our services and so 
some volatility in trafﬁ c usage.
Our BGAN service celebrated 
its 5th birthday during 2010. 
Since launch it has seen good 
subscriber growth, increasing 
46% in 2010. With the rapid 
take-up of our BGAN service, 
we have seen a corresponding 
decline in our older data 
service, GAN, and so have 
announced the closure of this 
service to be by the end of 
2014. We have already started 
to see migration away from 
GAN and expect this now to 
accelerate. Receiving awards 
LAND SE RVICES
MSS REVENUE 2010 LAND REVENUE 2010
 Land 21%  Other 79% Voice 5%  Data 95%
We continued to broaden the appeal of BGAN to media 
users by introducing a new 176kbps low-cost, entry-level 
streaming service.
for our BGAN service in the 
Middle East and Africa from 
both CommsMEA 2010 
for the ‘Most Innovative 
Non-Voice Service’, and 
the Digital Studio Industry 
Leadership Award in early 
2011 for ‘Satellite Services/
Provider of the Y ear’ 
voted on by professionals 
and organisations in the 
broadcast industry, recognise 
the continuing interest 
in our BGAN service.
We have seen our partners 
use BGAN in more creative 
and innovative ways – 
including support for elections 
in Brazil and the Philippines, 
enabling votes to be cast, 
collected, counted and 
announced in record time. 
We were able to play a part in 
the excitement of the rescue 
of the Chilean Miners with 
news crews using BGAN to 
broadcast events as they 
happened. BGAN was used 
to help map the oil s lick in the 
Gulf of Mexico following the 
explosion on the rig in April 
2010. The data sent back 
via BGAN allowed incident 
command staff to view 
updates as they happened 
and liaise more easily and 
quickly with the relevant 
government departments.
We have been innovative in 
working with partners and 
media customers to provide 
an additional suite of BGAN 
services they can use, offering 
price points to suit all types of 
situation and size of business 
operations. Our premium 
BGAN X-Stream service is 
available worldwide offering 
a guaranteed minimum 
symmetrical video streaming 
rate of up to 450kbps. We 
also introduced a new 
176kbps streaming rate which 
is suitable for talking head 
shots and low movement 
scenes. This lower streaming 
rate is ideal for broadcasters 
who have greater budget 
constraints as it still delivers 
good quality video to their 
viewers at a lower price. 
Combined with the 
introduction of the 176kbps 
service, we also developed 
three new prop ositions for 
our distribution partners and 
solution vendors which can be 
combined with a customer’s 
existing infrastructure to 
enhance its value or if the 
infrastructure does not exist, 
to offer options for last-mile 
connectivity to deliver content 
into the studio.
Forging a close relationship 
with our partners and 
customers is vital to help 
educate and share best 
practice and experience about 
our services. In August 2010, 
we were involved in the 
promotion and education of 
the IsatPhone Pro and BGAN 
services during the Africa 
Endeavor 2010 summit which 
was attended by 30 African 
nations. The aim was to 
promote interoperability 
among African nations. The 
ability to give training on 
equipment at the Summit 
will help facilitate their future 
communication needs.
We also created a video 
showing that setting up a 
BGAN terminal and 
establishing a broadband 
connection takes only three 
minutes – this was a helpful 
marketing tool for partners 
when explaining  how satellite 
technology can be easily 
used in day-to-day business 
activities in remote areas.
CHAIRMAN AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
CONTINUED CUSTOMER/MARKET OPERA TIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL
INMARSAT PLC 13
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
 IsatPhone Pro was launched at 
the end of June 2010 at a price 
point and with performance 
leadership which we felt were 
powerful messages.
  We have been innovative in 
working with partners and 
media customers to provide 
an additional suite of BGAN 
services they can use. 
  BGAN X-Stream is the only 
global service guaranteeing 
a minimum symmetrical 
video streaming rate of 
up to 450kbps. 
  Our land revenue ﬁ gures 
grew 5% during the year , with 
data revenues increasing 6%.
IsatPhone Pro was launched 
at the end of June 2010 at 
a price point and with 
performance leadership 
which we felt were powerful 
messages. An independent 
study of  our phone, 
comparing it to leading 
handheld satellite phones 
from Iridium and Thuraya, 
validated the claims for our 
phone. The study reported 
that the phone worked 
everywhere and is the most 
rugged, has excellent voice 
quality and a reliable network 
connection, plus has the 
longest battery life of the 
three satphones tested. As 
anticipated, the revenue 
contribution from IsatPhone 
Pro was not material in 2010. 
Working closely with our 
appointed distribution 
partners and their channels, 
we are focused on gaining 
market share and growing 
our subscriber base and 
revenue contribution over 
the coming years.
The use of low data rate 
satellite communications for 
SCADA (supervisory control 
and data acquisition) and 
telemetry activities has 
increased and we believe that 
this continues to be a good 
market sector for us. A recent 
successful implementation 
of a SCADA network based 
on BGAN was deployed for 
a major oilﬁ eld services 
company to monitor and 
control  hundreds of 
unmanned sites. The SCADA 
network monitors critical 
technologies such as electrical 
submersible pumps and 
temperature gauges with the 
customer being able to 
monitor all the controls from 
a central operations centre. 
We are developing this 
market sector through our 
relationship with SkyWave and 
our other distributors. New 
services are being developed 
to run over the Inmarsat-4 
satellites which we expect to 
be introduced in 2011-12.
IsatPhone Pro is being targeted at users in the oil and gas and utilities 
sectors, where remote stations take operatives beyond the reach of 
terrestrial networks.
The ability to communicate via IsatPhone Pro with employees in the ﬁ eld, 
no matter how remote they are, gives operations centres the ability to 
react to events and issues in real-time.
A range of docking stations 
is now available for use with 
the IsatPhone Pro.
High-end terminals are capable 
of operating with the premium 
BGAN X-Stream service to offer 
video s treaming of up to 450kbps.
STRATEGIC DELIVERY
Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, 
operational, industry position and ﬁ nancial 
strength continue to drive the business forward. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 14
AERONAUTICAL
Our SwiftBroadband service 
has seen strong revenue 
growth during 2010 and 
its widespread industry 
acceptance has been reﬂ ected 
in a corresponding growth in 
active channels of 140% 
year-on-year. SwiftBroadband 
enables cockpit, cabin and 
operational applications 
through one installation using 
a single antenna in the aircraft. 
We have continued to develop 
and evolve the service to 
meet the requirements of 
speciﬁ c markets and users. 
We have introduced new 
streaming classes together 
with a dynamic ‘Quality of 
Service’ which allows onboard 
applications to use the 
bandwidth more efﬁ ciently. 
In addition to these 
During 2010, revenues 
from the aeronautical sector 
were US$101.0m, increasing 
by 33% from 2009.
Our  Classic Aero services, 
which are used by airlines, 
business jets and military 
aircraft for operations and 
safety-critical services, provide 
the links between the 
ﬂ ight deck and air trafﬁ c 
control and showed 
excellent growth for this 
mature service of 15%. 
Our Swift64 service, which 
is a high-speed data service, 
experienced a healthy 
increase in the number 
of channels being used.
enhancements, we have 
developed a new service 
called SB200 which will 
provide standard IP data, 
circuit-switched voice 
telephony and streaming 
IP data up to 16kbps. The 
SB200 service is a lighter, 
smaller system and antenna 
which will reduce the purchase 
and installation costs. With 
this development, smaller 
aircraft will be able to access 
SwiftBroadband technology. 
We’re starting to see smaller 
aircraft already beneﬁ ting 
from lighter SwiftBroadband 
technology, such as Australia’s 
Victoria State Aircraft Unit 
which uses the technology in 
its new planes to tackle � �� re 
ﬁ ghting using real-time 
communications.
offset by non-renewals and 
reduction of some aeronautical 
and maritime leases. We’ve 
continued to experience some 
customers wanting to secure 
longer-term arrangements 
with us so that they have the 
knowledge of guaranteed 
access and where this 
happens we see the migration 
of trafﬁ c from one sector, 
such as maritime, to leasing. 
Our BGAN service offering 
is being enhanced in order 
to address the customer need 
for assured or guaranteed 
access on our latest generation 
satellites and this new service 
is expected to be available 
for trials during 2011. 
During 2010 revenues from 
leasing were US$111.7m, 
increasing by 8% compared 
with 2009. As noted in last 
year’s report, as the volume 
of our leasing business 
increases so does the need 
to secure renewals as 
contracts mature. We have 
been successful in doing this 
although dependent on the 
business needs of the 
customer, so we do not 
assume that all contrac ts 
will be renewed or extended. 
In 2010 we beneﬁ ted from 
an increase of additional 
government contracts and 
had a net revenue beneﬁ t 
from aeronautical leases, with 
some contract extensions 
LEASING
MSS REVENUE 2010 AERONAUTICAL REVENUE 2010
 Aeronautical 14%  Other 86%
MSS REVENUE 2010
 Leasing 15%    Other 85%
 Voice 4%  Data 96%
CHAIRMAN AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
CONTINUED CUSTOMER/MARKET OPERA TIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL
15
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
Use of SwiftBroadband 
technology helped Oman Air 
win ‘T echnology Implementation 
of the Y ear’ at the Annual 
Aviation Business Awards 
2010. The award recognised 
the pioneering introduction 
of in-ﬂ ight mobile phone 
and Wi-Fi connectivity using 
SwiftBroadband. More airlines 
are starting to offer inﬂ ight 
mobile communications 
using SwiftBroadband and 
new adoptees to announce 
commitments have been 
Emirates, the Brazilian ai rline 
TAM Airlines, Air Asia, 
Qatar Airways and 
Singapore Airlines.
We were also delighted to 
be the industrial lead in a 
consortium working with 
the US Defense Advanced 
Research Agency and the 
European Space Agency 
on a project for a data-relay 
satellite system using 
modiﬁ ed SwiftBroadband 
terminals called the SB-Sat 
programme. The modiﬁ ed 
terminals will be used on Low 
Earth Orbit (‘LEO’) satellites 
to deliver telemetry and 
operational commands as well 
as relaying mission data via 
our Inmarsat-4 satellites and 
Inmarsat ground network. 
Using modiﬁ ed Inmarsat 
technology, the LEO satellites 
beneﬁ t by having ‘always-on’ 
data communications without 
them having to pass over a 
ground station to maintain 
connectivity.
Our government customers 
use Inmarsat services across all 
our sectors and we continue 
to support both military 
and civilian operations on a 
worldwide basis. We have 
seen our revenues ﬂ uctuate as 
government activities chang e 
around the world and have 
seen reduced trafﬁ c levels in 
2010 from such users in the 
Middle East, reﬂ ecting this 
volatility. It is therefore difﬁ cult 
to predict usage patterns for 
these areas. As governments 
consider their spending plans 
for building their own satellite 
systems and balance this need 
against overall public spending, 
we can provide them with 
commercial capacity, so 
ensuring they meet the 
requirements for their 
communications needs. We 
have referred earlier in 
the report to the work we 
have done with the African 
nations providing education 
on the beneﬁ ts of our BGAN 
and IsatPhone Pro satellite 
communications solutions. 
We work closely with ﬁ rst 
responders in civilian 
departments to provide 
ﬁ rst-hand experience of using 
BGAN and how its capabilities 
can beneﬁ t them in times of 
crises. We have also embarked 
on a programme to develop 
Software Deﬁ ned Radio (SDR) 
for use on our BGAN system. 
This technology will allow 
 instant deployment of BGAN 
to new and existing tactical 
communications platforms. We 
are actively engaged with major 
defence contractors to complete 
certiﬁ cation so that troops 
in theatre will be able to use 
this new system in the future.
GOVERNMENT
  The SB200 service is a lighter, 
smaller system and antenna 
which will reduce the purchase 
and installation costs. 
  Our Swift64 service, which is 
a high-speed data service, 
experienced a healthy increase 
in the number of channels 
being used.
  We were delighted to 
be the industrial lead in a 
consortium working with 
the US Defense Advanced 
Research Agency and the 
European Space Agency on 
the SB-Sat programme. 
  Our aeronautical revenue ﬁ gures 
grew 33% during the year .
The new SwiftBroadband 200 service offers smaller 
aircraft a combination of Standard IP , circuit switched 
telephone and Streaming IP data at up to 16kbps.
The international response by governments and NGOs t o 
the Haiti earthquake was co-ordinated using BGAN voice 
and broadband connectivity.
STRATEGIC DELIVERY
Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, 
operational, industry position and ﬁ nancial 
strength continue to drive the business forward. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 16
On 12 January 2010, we 
acquired the business assets of 
Segovia. Segovia is a leading 
provider of secure Internet 
Protocol managed solutions 
and services principally to the 
United States Army and other 
U.S. military services and 
government agencies. We 
acquired Segovia to strengthen 
our relationships with these 
key government customers 
across land, maritime and 
aeronautical environments as 
well as bring enhanced services 
to the government sector 
generally. We are pleased that 
the management team in place 
before the acquisition continues 
to operate the Segovia 
business, reporting to Stratos 
at the executive level. We have 
been delighted with how this 
business, and particula rly its 
management, have settled 
into the Inmarsat Group and 
worked across the businesses 
to achieve success.
Stratos, as a major distributor, 
provides services directly to 
the customer, or through a 
network of service providers. 
It provides Inmarsat Global 
non-broadband services, such 
as GAN, Inmarsat C and Fleet, 
through its terrestrial network, 
including land earth stations 
(‘LESs’) located in Australia, 
Canada, the Netherlands 
and New Zealand. It also 
offers ﬁ xed-site remote 
telecommunications services 
over ﬁ xed satellite systems 
and through its owned and 
operated microwave facilities. 
In addition, Stratos provides 
customised turnkey remote 
telecommunications solutions, 
value added services and 
equipment and engineering 
services.
The Stratos segment includes 
Segovia and we report 
revenues in two categories. 
This ﬁ rst category is the 
MSS business, which is 
sub-divided into revenue 
for Inmarsat Global airtime 
services and then into ‘Oth er 
MSS’ revenues. The second 
category is the broadband 
business which now includes 
Segovia. The majority of 
MSS revenues are Inmarsat 
Global airtime sales, which are 
approximately 78% of total MSS 
revenue, representing around 
60% of total segment revenue.
MSS services
During 2010 MSS services 
represented US$557.4m 
of revenues, an increase 
of 1% compared with 2009.
Stratos has distribution 
agreements with Inmarsat 
Global covering the provision 
of services provided through 
its LESs, the provision of 
services offered over the 
Inmarsat-4 satellites and the 
provision of lease services. 
The price and volume of the 
various services sold by 
Stratos has been inﬂ uenced by 
several factors, including price 
competition both from other 
Inmarsat distribution partners 
and competing MSS and VSAT 
services, as well as the 
migration to new lower-margin 
broadband services. In addition, 
the promotion of some of their 
former service providers to 
becoming new Inmarsat 
dis tribution partners as well as 
changes in the mix of services 
they sell or lease have all 
adversely impacted Stratos’s 
revenues and margins. Stratos’s 
achievement in retaining 
its market share of Inmarsat 
Global services and the 
proﬁ tability of its MSS business 
cannot be underestimated. 
Furthermore Stratos has been 
a major contributor to the 
early sales of our IsatPhone 
Pro service and has introduced 
a new service, FleetBroadband 
Plus, to meet the growing 
need for higher bandwidth 
services in the maritime sector 
in advance of our Global 
Xpress offering. This is a 
hybrid L-band and Ku-band 
service that provides both the 
global service of our maritime 
services with the higher 
bandwidth of VSAT .
In 2010, the growth in the 
Inmarsat Global airtime 
services came primarily 
from increases in the use 
of the aeronautical Swift 64 
service, particularly strong 
FleetBroadband activity and 
with good growth also in 
leasing. This growth was 
partially offset by a  decrease 
in the land mobile sector.
‘Other MSS services’ for 
Stratos primarily consist 
of mobile terminals and 
equipment sales, mobile 
telecommunications services 
sourced on a wholesale basis 
from other MSS providers, LES 
services provided to certain 
distributors and other ancillary 
services. Other MSS services, 
in general, have lower gross 
margins than Inmarsat Global 
services. The decrease in 
the revenues of Other MSS 
revenues was due primarily 
to decreased LES services 
provided to other Inmarsat 
distributors, partially offset 
by increased sales of mobile 
terminals and equipment.
Broadband services
Broadband revenues increased 
by 75% to US$159.4m in 2010.
The Stratos Broadband 
business, in addition to 
the Segovia business noted 
above, provides VSAT services, 
primarily to the oil and gas 
sector, microwave services 
to oil platforms in the Gulf 
of Mexico, equipment supply 
and engineering services. 
The Stratos VSAT network 
enables integrated data and 
 voice telecommunications 
between remote ﬁ xed sites 
and land-based ofﬁ ces.
The increase in 2010 revenue 
is primarily due to the inclusion 
of Segovia revenues from 
acquisition on 12 January 2010 
and increased microwave 
revenues. Partially offsetting 
the increase was a decrease 
in VSAT revenue as a result of 
the expiry of certain contracts, 
the sale of certain customer 
contracts in Germany 
and a decrease in revenue 
from equipment sales.
The Broadband division, 
excluding Segovia, is 
experiencing lower demand and 
an increasingly competitive 
trading environment. Stratos’s 
management has already 
taken a range of actions, and is 
planning further initiatives to 
improve results. The WiMAX 
frequency spectrum licences 
we acquired for certain areas 
of the Gulf of Mexico in late 
2009 have enabled Stratos to 
promote its capability to offer 
radio access service in the 
Gulf of Mexico at broadband 
speeds, competitively priced 
against VSAT alternatives and 
with low  latency which 
provides an enhanced 
experience compared to VSAT . 
We believe the investment 
in the licences will provide 
Stratos with opportunities 
to further develop its services 
in this geographic area.
Segovia’ s expertise in designing, 
deploying and operating 
mixed satellite and terrestrial 
networks in the military’s 
challenging deployment and 
training environments, coupled 
with its secure, dedicated IP 
network infrastructure, have 
placed it at the centre of the 
U.S. Department of Defense’s 
(‘DoD’) transformation and 
modernisation initiatives. The 
trend within the DoD towards 
end-to-end solution acquisition 
versus piecemeal component 
acquisition is expected to 
drive demand for Segovia’s 
managed solutions and 
services in the coming years.
STRATOS
CHAIRMAN AND 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW  
CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 17
CUSTOMER/MARKET OPERA TIONAL INDUSTRY POSITION FINANCIAL
  We believe the launch of 
our Global  Xpress programme 
will offer even greater customer
choice.
  Our existing broadband 
services continue to 
attract new users which 
will generate growth. 
  Our strategy, staff and
partnerships will continue 
to drive the business forward.
  We expect signiﬁ cant
ﬁ nancial beneﬁ ts from 
our A TC Cooperation 
Agreement.
During 2010 we brought to market a new business stream – our 
handheld satellite phone IsatPhone Pro. We are working to ensure 
we target opportunities to develop this business opportunity.
We also made a signiﬁ cant decision to invest in building three 
Ka-band satellites and launching our Global Xpress programme 
to deliver further revenue opportunities. Although we will have 
some incremental operating costs for this programme, we don’t 
expect to see any trend changes in our underlying costs, cash 
ﬂ ow and proﬁ tability.
Although we expect land mobile and aeronautical revenues to 
have some volatility, we believe our BGAN and Swift Broadband 
services will continue to attract new users and trafﬁ c which will 
drive growth. Balanced with these developments, we expect the 
ongoing strong growth of FleetBroadband to continue to 
constrain revenue growth given the lower price of data services 
as usage levels build.
We expect to see growth in Inmarsat Global MSS revenues 
during 2011 although believe it will be weighted to the second 
half of the year. The Group will also have signiﬁ cant ﬁ nancial 
beneﬁ ts from the payments received from LightSquared under 
the Cooperation Agreement.
The professionalism of our employees across the Inmarsat 
group is a signiﬁ cant contributor to our success as a business. 
There is a relentless desire to improve what we do – whether 
through the innovation of our services, how they are delivered 
and the opportunities to evolve the business further.
We believe our strategy and direction, supported by our 
worldwide staff and good collaboration with all our partners, 
wil l continue to drive the business forward so creating further 
shareholder value.
ANDREW SUKA W ATY
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer
INMARSAT
OUTLOOK
2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC DELIVERY
Our four areas of strategic focus: customer, 
operational, industry position and ﬁ nancial 
strength continue to drive the business forward. 02
InterQuest Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Chairman’s and Chief  
Executive’s Statement
Overview_I am pleased to report a solid set of financial 
results for 2010 demonstrating a return to growth for our 
core business and strong progress in our IQ Equity division. 
We now have a total of 16 divisions (2009: 14; 2008: 8)  
each focused on a specialist niche of the IT industry. We 
believe we continue to benefit from this business model of 
separately branded divisions, giving us a level of resilience 
to the general market downturn. Gross profit (net fee 
income) increased by 18% to £14.7m and profit before tax  
rose 24% to £2.2m despite £0.3m of investment during the 
year into our new IQ Equity divisions.
Net Fee Income (“NFI”) from permanent recruitment was 
55% higher at £3,775k (2009: £2,440k) while contract 
margin increased by 9% to £10,883k (2009: £9,952k).
The number of contractors working onsite at clients 
reached 1,091 in the last week of December, up 12% from 
975 in the last week of December 2009.
Having pared back the number of fee earners in the 
business during the downturn we started 2010 with 119 
fee earners and increased this to 144 in December. As of 
the date of this report we have 149 fee earners.
We continue to carefully monitor our markets for signs of 
weakness; however we are cautiously optimistic that these 
initial signs of a return to growth are indicators of a better 
market in 2011.
Growth in Financial Services Markets_Our Financial 
Services division has experienced the greatest increase in 
the level of activity, showing a 29% increase in net fee 
 income. This has been led by the investment banking 
community’s investment in infrastructure combined with 
the increasingly demanding compliance and regulatory 
framework in these markets.
Developments of particular note within other divisions 
include the winning of two outsourced contracts by newly 
formed InterQuest Solutions, our Recruitment Process 
Outsourcing (“RPO”) division for the provision of staff, the 
largest of which is in the retail sector for a two year period 
producing over £5m of revenue per annum for the Group.
Public Sector impacted as expected_As expected, our 
Public Sector focused division has seen a 25% decrease in 
net fee income. Many of the end applications in which our 
personnel in the Public Sector are engaged are improving 
Gary Ashworth
Executive Chairman and Chief Executive
We continue to target and develop razor sharp 
niches to maintain our standing as a provider of 
specialist skills in the technology markets.
Our clients come to us knowin g that we will supply 
them with pools of rare talent that are unavailable 
elsewhere.
We are continually seeking to acquire companies in 
our sector who match our values and vision and 
share our passion for growth, improvement, and 
innovation. 03
InterQuest Group plc
Annual Report & Accounts 2010
I have been a recruiter since 1998 and in 2007 
InterQuest acquired my business. Straight away 
I found the benefits of being part of a much 
larger group were many are varied. On the one 
hand to be able to share, debate and solve 
problems with a team of like-minded 
professional recruitment managers often 
holding widely different views is stimulating and 
interesting.
 
On the other hand the operational synergy that 
is energised in the business model means that 
we are continually striving to grow the company 
by offering newer and better services and to 
improve the talents of the individuals whom we 
employ, at every level.
David Di Domenico – Intelect
confident that these business es, which now account 
for more than 7% of the Group’s 2010 net fee income, 
will make a meaningful contribution to Group profits 
going forward.
iQad Training_A decision was taken at the beginning of 
the year to reinitiate our dedicated training programme 
to coach new fee-earners entering the business. This 
process involved modelling best practice from our 
existing high achievers and then recruiting to the strict 
criteria learned. New staff were enrolled in a 12 week 
programme, held in our Harrogate offices, called iQad 
(InterQuest accelerated development) which included 
technical, hands on and residential elements. This has 
resulted in 25 new fee–earners joining the Group in 2010. 
We intend to run four more programmes in the current 
year, hiring a further 48 fee-earners in total.
Intention to recommence M&A programme_ The Group 
grew from a standing start in November 2001 to £106m of 
revenue in 2008 via acquisitions and organic growth. We 
paused our acquisition prog ramme during the 2008 to 
2009 downturn, choosing instead to secure our existing 
businesses and recruit experienced individuals from other 
practices to set up new divisions within IQ Equity. However, 
with our markets now showing signs of growth, we have 
recommenced our acquisition plans, seeking opportunities 
to accelerate our growth through the acquisition of 
niche-focused, specialist IT recruitment businesses.
Dividend_We have proposed a final dividend for the year 
of 2 pence (2009: 2 pence) bringing the total dividend for 
the year to 2.5 pence (2009: 2 pence).
Outlook_ The general economic outlook has improved 
throughout the course of 2010 except for the public 
sector and we have entered 2011 with the majority of 
metrics pointing towards continued growth. We are 
seeing increasing activity in contract and permanent 
recruitment, and have increased our sales staff to 
capitalise on this increased activity.
We believe these factors, combined with the potential for 
accelera ted growth through acquisitions, position us well 
for the year ahead.
I would like to thank all of the staff for their passion, 
commitment and hard work over the last twelve months.
Gary Ashworth
Executive Chairman and Chief Executive
8 March 2011
operational efficiencies and helping to deliver cost 
savings. Therefore the fact that we have noticed a slight 
improvement since the beginning of the year leads us to 
be cautiously optimistic.
The newly formed executive search and payroll solutions 
businesses have traded profitably in 2010.
Strong progress with IQ Equity_ The IQ Equity division, 
our incubator for start up businesses, made excellent 
progress during the year, securing some significant 
contracts and moving close to profitability. The division 
now includes Korus Recruitment Group, Fulcrum Telecom, 
PayQuest Group and Peregrine Recruitment.
We reported a loss of £182k in our IQ Equity division 
at the half year point, and are pleased to have seen 
that decrease signific antly to £144k in the second half. 
This brings the cumulative losses for the division to a 
total of £683k which we believe will prove to have been 
an excellent use of company resources in terms of 
increasing our platform for future growth.
We have separately identified the start up losses so that 
the growth within the established businesses is clear to 
the reader of this report. The final quarter of 2010 saw a 
collective swing to near profitability for the division. The 
division made profits in October and November and a 
loss of only £19k in the quarter as a whole. We are  02 JJB Sports plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
In many respects JJB Sports is a very attractive 
business. We are a leading retailer in the large and 
growing sports sector. We enable our customers to 
make full use of their leisure time and to maximise their 
sporting achievements by supplying them with the very 
best equipment and clothing to pursue their particular 
interest. We have excellent, know ledgeable staff, and 
supportive suppliers – key building blocks to enable  
our recovery.
This review is not intended to be a detailed review of the 
business of JJB Sports for the past year. That is the 
subject of the Operating review on subsequent pages. 
Instead, I intend setting out some initial observations  
on the Company and some immediate priorities. 
First, JJB is now pursuing the right strategy for both  
the business and its customers. The Company retains  
at its heart its Serious about Sport strategy, which 
differentiates us from all our competitors and appeals  
to a large customer base.
Earlier this year we completed some market research 
which underlined the strength of our market position.  
We operate in a market estimated to be worth over  
£5 billion, which is divided into various segments. 
Although JJB has customers and relevance in the  
whole market, our core markets for growth are:
>  Keen amateurs 
>  Recreational sports participants 
>  Sporting famili es
Together these markets include over 12 million people, 
or a quarter of the adult population. We are also keen  
to target what we call the Semi-Pro segment, which 
includes another 1.6 million people and who spend  
a great deal more per person on high performance 
clothing and equipment. 
In total these categories control more than half the 
overall market estimated to be worth more than  
£2.5 billion by our estimates. This work has given us 
considerable confidence that our strategy is correct and 
that our potential for growth in this market is large and 
very attractive. But to tap it successfully we have to heal 
the scars of our recent past and simply get much, much 
better at the basic business of retailing.
It gives me great pleasure to present my first annual review 
to you having joined as Chief Executive on 1 March 2010,  
less than three months ago.
The key areas of my focus in these early days have been 
as follows:
Our people
All great retailers have great colleague s at every level  
in the organisation. JJB is no exception. Everyone in  
our Company had to endure a great deal in the past  
two years, from strategic uncertainty, stock shortages 
through to the worry and uncertainty when the 
Company’s very survival was in doubt. It is a credit  
to them that we are still open, still trading and still  
serving customers.
We need to improve at every level however. The events 
of last year have left significant gaps in our management 
team and we will recruit some key individuals at a senior 
level. A few weeks ago I was delighted to welcome Ron 
Rome from Footlocker to the team as our Head of Retail. 
In the stores, we are keen to improve training to ensure 
that many of our colleagues are experts in key sports 
and can deliver really valuable advice to customers, 
whether they are novices or veterans in their chosen 
sports. We continue to look for and nurture key talent 
across all areas of the business to achieve the plans  
we have and will  continue to set.
Our suppliers
JJB has excellent relations with its key suppliers, 
including Adidas, NIKE, Umbro, Reebok, Under Armour, 
Puma and ASICS (to name but a few). These 
relationships form a key part of our business and we 
intend to develop and foster them at every level of our 
organisation. We are engaged in a constructive dialogue 
with our suppliers on a host of opportunities, including 
exclusive ranges, better displays, imaginative marketing 
and delighting our mutual customers.
The range of products for sale in JJB stores, and the 
price at which they are bought and sold, and the nature 
and level of stockholding will continue to be one of the 
key determinants of our success and we will continue to 
look for support from every level of the supply chain. 
Overview
Chief Executive’s review
Keith Jones 03 JJB Sports plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Overview 
 Business review
 Governance
 Financial statements
 Corporate information
Our stores
The location, size and  condition and layout of our 
portfolio of stores will also be a key factor in our future 
success. JJB has suffered years of under-investment  
in its core estate. Too many of our stores leave our 
customers and our colleagues under-whelmed. 
We have instituted a full review of our store portfolio,  
and have already started a number of small and 
cost-effective measures to relay or refresh stores.  
Over the summer we will select one of our larger stores 
for a complete refurbishment, using some of the capital 
raised from last year’s fund-raising. We will test this 
thoroughly and when satisfied will roll it out to several 
more. Ultimately we want our stores to benefit from  
a new look and a fresh approach to sports retailing  
that will captivate our customers. It will take time, but  
we are starting now. 
Our website, www.jjbsports.com, has seen some  
recent improvement in layout and navigation. We 
relaunched it last Autumn and made it fully transactional, 
with the result  that sales are over 100% up year on year. 
Customers ordering before 8pm are guaranteed next 
day delivery and those spending over £25 get the 
delivery for free. There remains a lot to do but we are 
confident of further progress; we are currently working 
on plans to launch a “Click and Collect” service before 
the end of the year so that customers can order from  
an extended range of equipment and apparel via the 
web and then collect it from the nearest store when 
convenient. The same extended range will also be 
available in all stores via a web terminal from which the 
customer can browse, order and then have available  
at store the next day. 
A seamless multichannel proposition bringing the widest 
range of sporting goods and equipment both online  
and instore.
Our processes
Finally, alongside under-investment in our stores,  
we have identified many areas of the business where 
business systems and processes need to be improved. 
Some of these inevitably require invest ment, but others 
require application and will. 
For example we successfully restocked the stores  
earlier this year, using the proceeds of our fund-raising. 
But in the process mistakes were made and 
opportunities missed. We have learned valuable lessons 
and now have a far more sophisticated model of how to 
stock each individual store according to its size and local 
demographic. We will use modern retailing techniques  
to ensure that all our stores have the right stock available 
in the right sizes at the right time – and displayed in the 
right way.
There is plenty to do but we welcome the challenge.  
We have the building blocks in place for a recovery  
– a stronger balance sheet, a dedicated team of 
management and colleagues, supportive suppliers  
and a large and attractive target market. The operational 
imperative is to leave no stone unturned in our quest  
to drive business improvement at every level and to 
achieve our plan over the timescales we have and  
will s et ourselves. 
We look forward to re-building a strong JJB, one that 
has a significantly differentiated offer for our customers 
and one that lives up to its promise to be Serious  
about Sport.
Keith Jones 
Chief Executive Officer
27 May 2010 02
Luminar Group Holdings plc
Leader in late night entertainment
www.luminar.co.uk
18233	 07/06/10	 page	amends
Performance Overview 
At	Luminar	we	aim	to	provide	the	highest	levels		
of	service	and	care	to	our	customers	by	utilising	
our	assets	to	create	destination	entertainment	
venues	capable	of	delivering	a	suite	of	lifestyle	
products.	These	products	offer	different	
experiences	to	a	variety	of	people	at	different		
times	to	suit	their	needs.
 
 
r e-focus our 
operational template
We	 will	 improve	 our	 product	
and	 our	 customer	 service.
	
improve our 
marketing skills
We	 will	 make	 sure	 our	 clubs	
are	 fashionable	 and	 relevant.	
	
d evelop central Head 
Office infrastructure
We	 will	 ensure	 it	 provides	
support	 that	 really 	 makes	 a	
difference.
	
Strengthen the use of 
our assets
We	 will	 rationalise	 our	 estate	
over	 time.
Read	 more	 on	 pages	 8,	 9	 and	 14
	
Our Strategy 
Key Facts 
Key Risks 
Luminar	began	trading	in	1988
The	Company	was	established	by	Stephen	
Thomas	who	was	Chief	Executive	until		
March	2010
It	became	the	most	successful	leisure	
company	of	the	early	1990’s
Luminar	plc	listed	on	the	London	Stock	
Exchange	in	May	1996
Luminar	purchased	27	venues	from	Allied	
Leisure	for	£35m	in	December	1999
The	first	Liquid	nightclub	was	opened	
in	Cardiff	2000	and	the	first	Oceana	was	
opened	in	Milton	Keynes	in	2002
Luminar	acquired	fourteen	venues		
through	the	purchase	of	the	Nightclub	
Company	in	2005
Luminar	undertook	a	Scheme	of	
Arrangement	in	October	2007	which	
returned	£41m	to	shareholders	and	
established	the	new	holding	company	
Luminar	Group	Holdings	Plc
The	main	risks	facing	the	business	are	set	out	
in	more	detail	on	pages	14,	15	and	16	and	
include	both	Internal	and	Exte rnal	Risks.
Internal Risks
These	include:	
   ensuring	covenant	compliance	under	
	 the	terms	of	the	Group’s	Syndicated		
	 Loan	Facility
   having	a	structure	with	a	high	
	 proportion	of	fixed	overheads	and		
	 variable	revenues
   needing	to	respond	quickly	to	changes	
	 in	fashion	and	consumer	taste
   the	possibility	of	a	major	fire	in	a	club
   addressing	all	the	health	and	safety	
	 issues	that	face	any	business	which	has		
	 a	high	number	of	customers
External Risks
These	include:	
   responding	to	regulatory	change	
	 (such	as	smoking,	noise	legislation		
	 and		the	imposition	of	mandatory	
	 licensing	conditions)	
   dealing	with	Licensing	Authorities	and	
	 other	organisations	so	as	to	maintain		
	 the	licenses	that	are	necessary	to	trade
   monitoring	interest	rate	movements	
	 and	all	costs	associated	with	borrowing 03
Luminar Group Holdings plc Stock Code: LMR
18233	 07/06/10	 page	amends
Overview
Business Review
Governance
Consolidated Financial Statements
Company Fina ncial Statements
Shareholder Information
Financial Highlights
T otal Revenue
-10%
£173.1m
Profit before tax
-78%
£4.4m
Gross margins
+0.2%
82.6%
Sales (per head)
+1.4%
£12.46
Cash Inflow
-42%
£31.5m
Net borrowings
Reduced 35%
£92.6m
201.3
2008
193.2
2009
173.1
2010
T otal Revenue
† 
(£m)
12.24
2008
12.29
2009
12.46
2010
Sales (per head) (£)
31.5
2008
20.3
2009
4.4
2010
Profit before tax  
pre-exceptional items
† 
(£m)
83.7
2008
82.4
2009
82.6
2010
Gross margins (%)
54.1
2008
54.3
2009
31.5
2010
Net cash inflow  
pre-exceptional  items (£m)
137.5
2008
141.8
2009
92.6
2010
Net borrowings (£m)
†
 
Continuing	operations. mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements c orporate governance review of the year
c hief executive officer’s report / 5  4 / c hief executive officer’s report
chieF executive oFFicer’s report
José-Luis Vázquez
Overview
I am pleased to report on our second full year of activity 
follow ing the Group restructure from the merger with 
Fresh Interactive Technologies S.A. (“Fresh IT”) in February 
2008. After completing the transaction and bedding in 
the business, the Board has focused on the Group’s core 
areas of expertise and profitable business lines, as well as 
empowering the international deployment of the Group’s 
products and services. The difficult economic environment 
has led to a slower than expected execution of these 
expansion plans, however the Board is pleased with the 
progress made in the past 12 months and this challenging 
environment only makes the successes achieved more 
rewarding.
We have continued to rationalise the operating cost 
structure of the Group and have invested in strengthening 
our sales and technical team. By increasing our 
international activities in what we consider to be key 
growth markets, as well as significantly reducing our 
overheads, we are delivering a more efficient process and 
remain focused on our goal of a chieving profitability.  
We are grateful for the support of our employees, 
shareholders and partners and we believe that this 
transformational period will lead to a solid base from 
which we can build and grow the business.
Trading review 
The second year after the Group restructuring has been 
dedicated to completing the turnaround, which was 
initiated during the previous year, and has resulted in a 
much more efficient structure. mirada has concentrated 
its activities on its core business areas, closing activities 
where margins were low or even negative. At the 
same time, this year has seen the consolidation of our 
international expansion strategy, focused on increasing 
value through the development of our business in growth 
areas, such as Latin America. 
During the period there has been a complete 
reconfiguration of our Board of Directors. We welcomed 
Mr. Richard Alden, Mr. Francis Coles, Mr. Javier Casanueva, 
Mr. Javier Herrero and Mr. Carlos Vizcayno to the Board 
as  Non-Executive Directors. These new additions provide 
the Board with international, commercial and financial 
insight that has proven to be very useful in stabilising the 
business and looking at growth opportunities as we build 
our international footing.
We are pleased to report that the integration objectives, 
as stated at the time of the merger with Fresh IT, are now 
complete. Management has however continued to strive 
for further improvement in efficiency, making additional 
cost savings in the current period. Annual overheads for 
continuing activities decreased by 27 per cent from £5.9 
million in the year ended 31 March 2009 to £4.3 million in 
the year ended 31 March 2010, and the gross profit margin 
increased from 57 per cent to 65 per cent in the same 
period.
During the period under review, the Group has announced 
a number of important international agreements within 
Latin America, Western Europe and the Middle East, and 
we will continue to seek additional opportun ities to 
expand our international offering. 
In September 2009 we signed our first international deal 
for our Gaming division. mirada is licensing its Virtual 
Dealer Roulette (“VDR”) product for distribution in Eastern 
Europe, and expects to replicate this deal across other 
international regions. Furthermore, during the period, the 
Group signed agreements with a number of international 
telecommunication partners and we look forward to 
exploring more of these opportunities in the current 
financial year. 
Additionally, in September 2010, post period end, we 
announced a global partnership deal with Ericsson, a 
leading telecom vendor, to deploy mirada’s technology to 
Ericsson’s IPTV customers. The agreement is royalty based 
and has the potential to change the shape of the Group 
going forward. The announcement was well received by 
both Ericsson’s and mirada’s customers at the IBC trade 
show in Amsterdam held during September 2010. 
Financial overview
During the p eriod, revenues were £5.74 million, down 
from £8.46 million in the pervious year. The Group has 
however reduced its loss before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation and share-based payment charges from 
£0.67 million in the year ended 31 March 2009 to £0.49 
million in the period under review, despite the difficult 
economic environment.  
Loss before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and 
share-based payment charges is a key performance 
indicator (“KPI”) used by management and removes the 
impact of one off and non-cash items (see note 6). Other 
KPIs used by management are as follows:
Gross profit margin: The Group is continuing to focus on •	
its product-based strategy; this has led to an increase 
in the gross profit margin from 57 per cent in the year 
ended 31 March 2009 to 65 per cent in the period under 
review.
Administration expenses:  It is the aim of management •	
to make the Group’s cost structure as efficient as 
possible without impacting o n the quality of the 
services provided. During the year to March 2010 
administrative expenses from continuing operations 
were reduced from £5.9 million in 2009 to £4.3 million.
Overseas activities: In previous periods the Group •	
has been over reliant on revenues earned from the 
highly competitive UK market. Management is now 
focused on diversifying the business by extending the 
Group’s activities internationally. In the current year the 
percentage of revenues earned from overseas activities 
increased from 26 per cent in 2009 to 40 per cent in the 
period under review. 
The retained loss for the year equalled £7.5 million (year 
ended 31 March 2009: £2.3 million), however this does 
include a goodwill impairment charge of £5.2 million 
and losses from discontinued activities of £1.1 million. 
The goodwill impairment has largely arisen from the 
Group’s decision to exit from the Business to Consumer 
gaming market and the cessation of the studios and 
the group ende d the year with most of 
its objectives achieved...and we reaffirm 
our commitment to long-term profitable 
relationships within our marketplace.
“Successfully signing up major telecoms operators 
is demonstrative of our technical and innovative 
knowledge, as well as our ability to deliver complex 
projects. ”
Aldo Campinos, VP of Sales & Business Development
By increasing our international activities 
in what we consider to be key growth 
markets we are delivering a more 
efficient process and remain focused on 
our goal of achieving profitability.  
In September 2010, post period end, we 
announced a global partnership deal 
with Ericsson, a leading telecom vendor, 
to deploy mirada’s technology  
to Ericsson’s IPTV customers. mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements c orporate governance review of the year
c hief executive officer’s report / 7  6 / c hief executive officer’s report
chieF executive oFFicer ’s report
- continued
playout operations. The results of the studios and playout 
operations are included in discontinued activities in the 
consolidated income statement.
Post the year end the Group has obtained additional bank 
financing totalling €0.85 million (£0.73 million), of these 
facilities €0.1 million (£0.09 million) is due to be repaid 
within one year. The interest rate payable on all of these 
facilities is under 6% per annum. Additionally, post year 
end, the Group has secured a development loan for €0.5 
million (£0.43 million). This loan is repayable in six equal 
half yearly instalments from 30 June 2014 to 31 December 
2016 and has an initial annual interest charge of Euribor 
plus 0.75%.
Operational Review
a reas of business
mirada is an audiovisual interaction technology company. 
We trade in complementary areas, and have assets and 
interests across five operational divisions:
d igital tv operators: 
We have more than 10 years of experience in technolo gies 
from Interactive TV to advanced navigational services. We 
have a solid network of partners and we are internationally 
recognised for our skill base. Our core software for digital 
TV includes, amongst others, Electronic Programming 
Guides (“EPG”), Video on Demand (“VOD”) and Personal 
Video Recorders (“PVR”). We are increasingly evolving 
towards a multi-screen approach via TV, internet and 
mobile technologies.
broadcasters and content producers: 
We base our offering on a set of products and services that 
complement traditional broadcasting with a synchronised 
layer to create digital TV, mobile and internet interactivity. 
Our core product is xplayer and our synchronisation 
technology is widely deployed across the major 
broadcasters in the UK.
gaming brands: 
We provide video-rich audiovisual gaming and gambling 
content and technology for television, mobile and the 
internet. Content includes our highly successful Roulette 
and Bingo products which deliver m ulti-platform content 
and technology, using our synchronised multi-platform 
interaction capabilities.
interactive marketing: 
Our customers are agencies, brand owners and media 
buyers, who utilise our interactive advertising tools over 
mobile, internet and digital TV environments. In a market 
where references are key, we are pleased to say that our 
services have been deployed by leading brands across the 
world, including Condé Nast and Pepsi. 
mirada connect:
mirada connect provides transactional technology to 
parking platforms and services. We work with major 
partners, such as NCP , APCOA and Meteor, to provide 
mobile cashless parking, permits management and 
Penalty Charge Notice payment services. 
d igital tv business
We are pleased to announce that our Digital TV unit has 
seen an increase in activity during the recent months and 
we expect to continue its international expansion during 
2011. We have signed partnership agreements, such as the 
Ericsson agreement mention ed above. 
We have also announced deals to provide EPG, VOD 
and PVR technologies over different middlewares and 
conditional accesses. This, we believe, reinforces our 
neutrality and flexibility, which is widely welcomed by 
our partners and many final customers in this area. The 
period has seen the Group make important investments in 
the development of its set-top-box (“STB”) technologies. 
This has consolidated our technical capabilities and 
prepared the technical grounds that are now leading to 
new customer contracts and international distribution 
agreements.
Additionally, the Group has secured significant 
agreements with partners including Sky Italia and 
Sogecable (in Spain) to develop a continued flow of 
services which should to lead to an increase in the gross 
profits in the current year.
broadcast business
The broadcast industry has been adversely affected by the 
global recession which, in turn, led to a decrease in the 
revenues generated from our studio and pla yout activities. 
In order to mitigate this risk and reduce losses, the Board 
decided to cease these operations.
In respect of our other broadcast activities, this year has 
seen the popularisation of the usage of green button 
services across several channels in the UK, principally as 
reminders and PVR triggers related to promoted content. 
Our xplayer technology has been key in many of these 
deployments and we expect it to increase its presence 
amongst the most popular broadcasters, not only in the 
UK but internationally.
With the recent appointment of Mr. Paul Hastings as 
the Group’s new Sales Manager in the UK, our presence 
in the media market has been strengthened. Paul has 
a demonstrable track record and vast experience in 
the interactive media world. Paul will be concentrating 
on strengthening and developing new formats in the 
Interactive Digital market in the UK, a fast growth area 
within the industry.
gaming business
As stated in previous reports, the Group has b een 
gradually exiting the Business to Consumer market, 
enabling it to avoid competing with its potential Business 
to Business customers in the interactive gaming market - 
this process is now complete. The Group’s focus is now to 
utilise its growing presence in the Digital TV and Broadcast 
markets to allow us to distribute our gaming technology 
to customers in these markets. 
Our first major overseas deal with an Eastern European 
group was announced in September 2009. The team has 
increased its expertise in overseas gaming activities for 
third parties, and this has been reinforced with a new 
Head of Gaming, Mr. Simon Grieve. 
Over the last 12 months we have seen progress in the 
expected change to the gambling legislation across 
Western Europe, with key markets such as France and 
Italy establishing the legal framework to govern remote 
gaming; and other markets such as Spain expected to 
follow shortly. These are significant developments towards 
a clear set of regulation s for gambling activities in the 
international market place and we believe that mirada is 
clearly positioned to offer its expertise in these markets, 
as well as in Latin America, both directly and through 
partnership agreements.
interactive marketing
The Interactive Marketing unit has consolidated its 
relationships in both the UK and the Italian markets. In 
the UK we have reinforced our activity with Britvic, which 
has expanded the number of its brands that use our 
mobile technologies. The Group also won business with 
Virgilio and Condé Nast in Italy, and through continuing 
our relationship with these customers into the present 
financial year, we are expecting new campaigns in twelve 
countries across Europe and the Far East.
We have progressed, developing technically demanding 
advertising formats to support the largest Pepsi mobile 
promotion, the ‘Max it for a Million’ campaign, in support 
of its sponsorship of the World Twenty20 Cricket World 
Cup.
During the year  the division has increased the range 
of services it provides to its customers, including web 
campaigns and downloadable mobile applications, thus 
delivering significantly increased revenues in comparison 
to the previous financial year.
Financial overview (continued) mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements c orporate governance review of the year
Board of directors / 9  8 / c hief executive officer’s report
chieF executive oFFicer’s report
- continued
this yeAr hAs seen the consolid Ation oF 
our intern Ation Al exp Ansion str Ategy , 
FOCUSED ON INCREASING VALUE THROUGH THE 
DEVELOPMENT OF OUR BUSINESS IN GROWTH 
AREAS, SUCH AS LATIN AMERICA. 
Outlook
The Group has made firm progress over the past 12 
months and into the new financial year. We have signed 
a number of international deals and have begun to 
diversify the business overseas in order to mitigate any 
potential risk. The Management has reacted quickl y to the 
economic situation and we have cut costs and increased 
efficiency, something that we plan to continue into 2011. 
The additional bank facilities secured at attractive interest 
rates post year end has strengthened our working capital 
position.
The time and effort we have put into developing our IPTV 
suite of products and services is increasingly proving to 
be well placed and we are extremely encouraged by the 
global partnership deal signed with Ericsson in September. 
This agreement has the potential to make a positive 
impact on the Group’s financial position during the current 
financial year and, as the relationship develops, we believe 
that this agreement will generate further significant 
revenues in the future.
We have a number of potential new agreements in 
the pipeline and we have been steadily building our 
international relationships. We believe that the Group 
is now financially stable and ready to grow and we are 
looking forward to updating the market on  any future 
developments in due course.
José-Luis Vázquez
c hief executive o fficer
8 December 2010
José-Luis Vázquez
c hief executive o fficer
José L. Vázquez he has more than 15 years of experience in 
Telecomms and Interactivity markets, where he is a skilled 
professional. He founded Fresh in the year 2000 being the 
Chief Technical Officer, and became the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Company in 2004. José Luis holds a degree 
in Advanced Telecommunication Engineering (UPM) and a 
MBA (IESE).
Rafael Martin Sanz
non-executive d irector
Rafael Martin Sanz holds a degree in Economics and 
Business Studies from the Universidad Complutense de 
Madrid and is a member of the Spanish Association of 
Economists. He served as Chairman of Television y
Sonido (TELSON) from 1990 to 2002. He was director of 
Page Ibercia, S.A., Amper, S.A. and Chairman of Avanzit 
TMT from 2000 to 2002. He has also held positions in the 
Spanish Local Government and is currently a director of 
the Spa nish listed company Paraquesol Inomibiliara y 
Proyectos, S.A and other companies.
Javier Casanueva
non-executive d irector
Javier Casanueva is a partner at Baring Private Equity 
Partners Espana S.A. (“Baring”), and has extensive 
experience in transactions both in Europe and the USA. 
He has sat on the boards of numerous companies across a 
variety of sectors as a representative of Baring.
Francisco Javier Herrero
non-executive d irector
Francisco Javier Herrero is an experienced CFO who brings 
a wealth of knowledge and contacts in the European 
marketplace.
Carlos Vizcayno
non-executive d irector
Carlos Vizcayno is a lawyer and has served as General 
Counsel to companies for over ten years.
Francis Coles
non-executive d irector
Frances Coles has nearly 30 years experience in corporate 
finance. He was a founder director of corporate finance 
advisory boutique New Boathouse Capital and latterly 
served as a director of AIM listed merchant bank Quayle 
Munro following its aquisit ion of New Boathouse Capital 
in 2007. Prior to that Francis was a director of Baring 
Brothers and subsequently Santander Investment where 
his responsibilities included debt and equity fundraisings 
and merger and acquisition activities in the European and 
Latin American markets.
Richard Alden
non-executive d irector
Richard Alden has extensive international experience in 
developing and financing fast growing telecommunication 
companies particularly in Europe and North America. 
From 1998 to 2009 he was the Chief Executive Officer and 
a founding director of Grupo Corporativo ONO SA, the 
largest cable television and telecommunications operator 
in Spain.
Bo Ard oF directors mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements c orporate governance review of the year
d irector’s report / 11  10 / s enior management
The directors present their annual report and the audited 
financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 .
Principal activities
The principal activities of the Group are the provision and 
support of products and services in the interactive media, 
advertising and gaming markets. For a more detailed 
description of the Group’s activities refer to the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Report on pages 4 to 8.
Review of business and future developments
Reviews of the business, its results, future direction and 
key performance indicators are included in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Report on pages 4 to 8.
Results and dividends
The consolidated income statement for the year is set out 
on page 18. No dividend is declared in respect of the year 
(2009: £nil).
Principal risks and uncertainties
When the Board considers business risks going forward, 
the prominent risks include our dependence on people, 
the interactive services and gaming markets, and 
information technology.
dependence on people
The Group recognises the value of the commitment of 
their staff members and is conscious that it  must keep the 
reward systems, both financial and motivational, in place 
to minimise this area of risk. Our share option schemes 
and investments in training are examples of this.
interactive media and gaming markets
The sectors in which the Group operates may undergo 
rapid and unexpected changes. It is possible therefore 
that either competitors will develop products similar to 
the Group, or its technology may become obsolete or less 
effective. The Group’s success depends upon its ability 
to enhance its products and technologies and develop 
and introduce, on a timely and cost effective basis, new 
products and features that meet changing customer 
requirements and incorporate technological advances. 
As a result the Group continues to invest significantly in 
research and development.
information technology
Data security and business continuity pose inherent risks 
for the Group. The Group invests in, and keeps under 
review, formal data security and business continuity 
polic ies.
Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s activities expose it to a number of financial 
risks including capital risk, credit risk, foreign currency 
exchange risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk. The 
management of financial risk is governed by the Group’s 
policies approved by the board of directors, which provide 
written principles to manage these risks. See note 21 for 
further details on the Group’s financial instruments.
c redit risk
The Group has some exposure to credit risk from credit 
sales. It is the Group’s policy to assess the credit risk of new 
customers before entering into contracts. Historically, bad 
debts across the Group have been low.
c apital risk
After making enquiries, the directors have formed a 
judgement at the time of approving the consolidated 
financial statements that there is a reasonable expectation 
that the Company and Group have adequate resources 
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 
fut ure. These resources include funding from the Group’s 
overdraft facilities and the new facilities secured posted 
year end as identified in the Chief Executive Officer’s 
Report on page 6. For this reason, the directors continue 
to prepare the consolidated financial statements on the 
going concern basis (see note 2).
Foreign currency exchange risk
The majority of cash at bank is held in Sterling and Euro 
accounts. There are also trade balances in these currencies. 
As these currencies are now the Group’s functional 
currencies, the Group has not entered into any forward 
exchange contracts. Any foreign exchange gains or losses 
are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
interest rate risk
The Group is cash positive and places its balances 
on short-term deposit with highly regarded financial 
institutions. Changes in interest rates will affect the return 
on cash balances. The Group does not hold or issue 
derivative financial instruments.
liquidity risk
Details on  the Group’s liquidity risk are provided in note 
21.
senior m AnAgement directors’ report
José-Luis Vázquez
c hief executive o fficer
José L. Vázquez he has more than 15 years of experience in 
Telecomms and Interactivity markets, where he is a skilled 
professional. He founded Fresh in the year 2000 being the 
Chief Technical Officer, and became the Chief Financial 
Officer of the Company in 2004. José-Luis holds a degree 
in Advanced Telecommunication Engineering (UPM) and a 
MBA (IESE).
Aldo Campinos
vice president of s ales and Business development
Aldo Campinos joins mirada with over 12 years 
experience within the Digital TV and Telco markets. Aldo 
was previously the Vice President of Sales and Business 
Development for the American division of Jungo. Prior to 
this Aldo had undertaken the role of Vice President Sales 
and Business Development of Middleware for NDS in Paris. 
He graduated from ENSTA Engineering School in Paris, and 
also holds a Masters of Electrical En gineering.
José Gozalbo
c hief technical o fficer
José Gozalbo has been Chief Technical Officer of mirada 
since its creation. He holds a degree in Computer Science 
and he has in depth experience in Software Development 
and Digital TV markets. At mirada, José is responsible 
for the Company’s overall technology strategy, product 
development and project management.
Graham Duncan
c hief Financial o fficer
Graham Duncan is a chartered accountant having qualified 
with PricewaterhouseCoopers where he worked for five 
years in the audit and business advisory sector. Prior to 
joining mirada, Graham was the Chief Financial Officer of 
Parallel Media Group plc, an AIM listed sports marketing 
company, before this he was the Group Financial 
Controller for Sportal International Ltd.
Antonio Rodriguez
d irector of d igital tv
Antonio comes from Jazztel PLC where he held the roles 
of Network Engineering Manager and Telco Platforms 
and OSS Manager. He has an extensive knowledge, 
with t en years of experience in telecommunication. 
Antonio Rodriguez holds a bachelor´s degree in 
Telecommunications Engineering (UPM) and a MBA (IE).
Alison Boyce
d irector of human resources
Alison holds an MA in Human Resource management, a BA 
Hons in Hospitality and Business and more than 15 years 
management experience. Prior to joining mirada, Alison 
was the UK HR Manager for YellowBrix inc, a US based 
information services provider, Human Resource Generalist 
for Sportal International Ltd, an online sports media 
company and before this she was a General Manager for 
Whitbread Plc.
Simon Grieve
head of gaming
Simon Grieve has worked within the interactive gaming 
sector since 1999, most recently leading his own 
consultancy practice. Simon has extensive operator 
and platform-side knowledge gained whilst working at 
companies including Talarius, WagerWorks (IGT), Telewest 
(now Virgin Media) and Kirch. His experience encompasses 
sportsbetting, poker, casino, slots and bingo acro ss 
internet and TV platforms. mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements c orporate governance review of the year
c orporate governance / 13  12 / d irector’s report
corpor Ate governAnce directors’ report
– continued
Introduction
The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders 
for the good corporate governance of the Group. The 
principles of corporate governance are set out in the 
Financial Reporting Council’s revised Combined Code on 
corporate governance issued in 2006. Under the rules of 
the Alternative Investment Market (AIM) the Group is not 
required to comply with the Code and the Board considers 
that the size of the Group does not warrant compliance 
with all of the Code’s requirements but has voluntarily 
adopted appropriate sections of the Combined Code.
Principles of the combined code
t he Board
The Board now comprises the Chief Executive Officer, 
José-Luis Vázquez; and six non-executiv e directors, Rafael 
Martín Sanz, Javier Casanueva, Javier Herrero, Carlos 
Vizcayno, Francis Coles and Richard Alden. The non-
executive directors are independent of management. 
Non-executive directors are appointed on a contract with 
a three-month notice period. The terms and conditions 
of the appointment of the non-executive directors are 
available for inspection from the company secretary. 
Executive directors are appointed on contracts with a 
12-month notice period. All directors are subject to re-
election every three years. Directors appointed during the 
year are subject to re-election by the shareholders at the 
first opportunity after their appointment. The directors 
who are subject for re-election in the coming year are 
Javier Casanueva, Javier Herrero, Carlos Vizcayno, Francis 
Coles and Richard Alden. Biographies for each director can 
be found on the Company’s website. 
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved 
to it for decision. All directors  have access to the advice 
and services of the company secretary, who is responsible 
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are 
followed and that applicable rules and regulations are 
complied with. If required, the directors are entitled to 
take independent advice, and if the Board is informed 
in advance the cost of the advice will be reimbursed 
by the Group. To discharge its governance function 
effectively, the board has laid down rules for its own 
activities in a governance process policy. Responsibility for 
implementing this policy is placed on the chief executive 
officer. This policy covers: 
the conduct of members at meetings •	
the cycle of board activities and the setting of agendas •	
the provision of timely information to the board •	
board officers and their roles •	
board committees, their tasks and composition •	
qualifications for board membership and the process of •	
the nomination committee 
the evaluation and assessment of board performan ce •	
the remuneration of non-executive directors •	
the process for directors to obtain independent advice •	
the appointment and role of the company secretary •	
approval of the annual budget and the regular update •	
of forecasts
Board meetings are scheduled to take place once every 
two months, with additional meetings to attend to urgent 
matters. The respective attendance record of each director 
during the year was as follows:  
Directors’ attendance
board
meetings
a udit
c ommittee
r emuneration
c ommittee
a ttended possible a ttended possible a ttended possible
Michael Sinclair 10 10 — — — —
José-Luis Vázquez 12 12 — — — —
Richard Blake 9 10 2 2 — —
Rafael Martín Sanz 10 12 1 2 — —
Javier Casanueva 4 4 — — 1 1
Javier Herrero 4 4 — — — —
Carlos Vizcayno 4 4 — — 1 1
Francis Coles 2 2 — — — —
Richard Alden 1 1 — — 1 1
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, the Chief 
Executive Officer describes to the Board  how the expected 
outcome and goals are intended to be delivered through 
regular business plans, which also encompass an 
assessment of the Group’s risks. During the year, the Board 
receives updates on progress towards these outcomes 
through actual and forecasted results. 
The Chief Executive Officer is obliged to review and discuss 
with the Board all strategic projects or developments and 
all material matters currently or prospectively affecting the 
Group and its performance. This key dialogue specifically 
includes any materially under-performing business 
activities, and material matters of a social responsibility, 
environmental or ethical nature. 
The Board also sets out how the Chief Executive Officer’s 
performance will be monitored and recognises that, in 
the multitude of changing circumstances, judgement will 
always be involved. The systems set out by the board are 
designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk 
of failure to achieve the goals. They provid e reasonable, 
rather than absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
Directors’ and officers’ indemnity insurance
The Group has taken out an insurance policy to indemnify 
the directors and officers of the company and its 
subsidiaries in respect of certain liabilities which may 
attach to them in their capacity as directors or officers of 
the Group, so far as permitted by law. This policy remained 
in force throughout the year and remains in place at the 
date of this report.
Directors
The directors who held office during the period are given 
below:
executive d irectors
Dr Michael Sinclair  Non-executive Chairman
 (resigned 4 February 2010)
Mr José-Luis Vázquez  Chief Executive Officer
non-executive d irectors
Mr Richard Blake (resigned 4 February 2010) 
Mr Rafael Martín Sanz   
Mr Javier Casanueva (appointed 17 December 2009)
Mr Javier Herrero (appointed 17 December 2009)
Mr Carlos Vizcayno (appointed 17 December 2009)
Mr Francis Coles (appointed 4 February  2010)
Mr Richard Alden (appointed 23 March 2010)
The interests of directors in the shares of the Group at 31 
March 2010 are disclosed in the Directors’ Remuneration 
Report on pages 15.
Substantial shareholdings
At 30 November 2010 the following shareholders held, 
directly or indirectly, three per cent or more interests in the 
issued share capital of the Company:
number of
ordinary
£1 shares
percentage 
of issued 
ordinary 
share capital
Kasei 2000 S.L. 4,799,259 24.2%
Naropa Capital S.L.U 3,818,589 19.3%
Baring Iberia II Inversion en 
Capital F.C.R.
3,496,588 17.7%
Hanover Nominees Ltd 2,484,266 12.5%
Vidacos Nominees Ltd 2,142,859 10.8%
Fresh Inversiones S.L. 1,180,242 6.0%
Political and charitable contributions
The Group made no political or charitable contributions 
during the year.
Creditor payment policy and practice
The Group’s policy is that payments to suppliers are made 
in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed 
between the Group and its suppliers, provided  that all 
trading terms and conditions have been complied with. 
At 31 March 2010, the Group had an average of 109 days 
purchases outstanding in trade creditors (2009: 83 days).
Employee involvement and disabled employees
Employees of the Group are regularly consulted by 
management and kept informed of matters affecting them 
and the overall development of the Group. The Group 
gives full consideration to applications for employment 
from disabled persons where the requirements of the 
job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or 
disabled person. Where existing employees become 
disabled, the Group’s policy, wherever practicable, is to 
provide continuing employment under normal terms 
and conditions and to provide training and career 
development and promotion to disabled employees.
Events since the balance sheet date 
Significant events which have occurred since the balance 
sheet date are detailed in note 28.
Auditors
Each of the persons who are directors at the date of  
approval of this report confirms that:
1.  so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant 
audit information of which the auditors are unaware; 
and
2. the directors have taken all the steps that they ought to 
have taken as directors in order to make them aware of 
any relevant audit information and to establish that the 
auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in 
accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
BDO LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in 
office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will 
be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf 
of the Board:
José-Luis Vázquez
c hief executive o fficer
8 December 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements c orporate governance review of the year
d irectors’ remuneration report / 15  14 / c  orporate governance 
directors’ remuner Ation report corpor Ate governAnce
– continued
The following committees deal with specific aspects of the 
Group’s affairs:
Remuneration Committee
During the year the Remuneration Committee, the report of 
which is on pages 15, comprised the following non-executive 
directors
Richard Blake (Chairman)  - resigned 4 February 2010 
Rafael Martín Sanz  - resigned 11 February 2010 
Javier Casanueva  - appointed 11 February 2010
Carlos Vizcayno  - appointed 11 February 2010
Richard Alden (Chairman)  - appointed 23 March 2010
The remuneration committee is responsible for the terms and 
conditions and remuneration of the executive directors and 
senior management and the granting of share options to the 
Group’s executive directors and employees. The Remuneration 
Committee may consult external agencies when ascertaining 
market salaries. The chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
will be available at the AGM to answer any shareholder 
questio ns.
Audit Committee
During the year the Audit Committee comprised the following 
non-executive directors:
Richard Blake (Chairman)  - resigned 4 February 2010 
Rafael Martín Sanz  - resigned 11 February 2010 
Francis Coles (Chairman)  - appointed 11 February 2010
Javier Herrero  - appointed 11 February 2010
Biographies detailing the respective qualifications of the 
Audit Committee members are available for viewing on our 
website. The board considers that the membership of the 
Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant 
financial experience to fulfil its duties. 
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to 
undertake its duties. It has access to the services of the 
company secretary, and all other employees. The committee 
may take legal or professional advice when it believes it 
necessary to do so. 
The Committee meets as required, but not less than two times 
a year. Other directors may also attend committee meetings 
by invitation, but the committe e also meets privately for 
discussions with the external auditors who attend all its 
meetings.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to:
monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements; •	
review the Group’s internal financial controls and risk •	
management systems; and
oversee the Group’s relationship with the external auditors. •	
The main activities of the committee in the year ended 31 
March 2010 were:
assessing the effectiveness of the significant financial •	
reporting issues related to the preparation of the Group’s 
financial statements;
assessing the effectiveness of the systems established to •	
identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-
financial risks;
monitoring the integrity of the Group’s internal financial •	
controls;
reviewing with the external auditors the findings of their •	
work and the effectiveness of the external audit process; 
reviewing arrangements for staff of the Group to raise •	
conc erns, in confidence, about possible improprieties in 
matters of financial reporting of other matters; 
reviewing the need for, and the feasibility of, an internal audit •	
function; and
reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external •	
auditor.
Internal control
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Group’s 
system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness. The 
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of 
failure to achieve the Group’s strategic objectives and can only 
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the 
Turnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for 
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced 
by the Group. The process has been in place for the full year 
under review and up to the date of approval of the Report and 
Financial Statements. The Board regularly reviews the  process.
The key elements of the risk management processes and system 
of internal control procedures include:
a clear organisational structure and lines of responsibility; •	
the identification through reporting procedures of major •	
financial, commercial, legal and operational risks;
the operation of a comprehensive budgeting and financial •	
reporting system and the comparison of actual results 
against budget;
the periodic update of budgets and performance targets and •	
outlook, which is reviewed by the Board; and
the authorisation and monitoring of investment policy, •	
acquisition and disposal proposals, and major capital 
expenditure.
The key processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness 
of the system of internal controls include the following:
the review of the results of the risk assessment; •	
review of the actual results against budget and results of the •	
investigation of material differences for the period; and
the review of issues raised by the  external auditors. •	
The Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration policy that applies to executive directors and senior 
management. The Remuneration Committee meets as necessary in order to consider and set the annual remuneration 
for executive directors and senior managers, having regard to personal performance and industry remuneration rates. In 
determining that policy it considers a number of factors including:
the basic salaries and benefits available to executive directors and senior management of comparable companies; •	
the need to attract and retain directors and others of an appropriate calibre; and •	
the need to ensure all executives’ commitment to the success of the Group. •	
Non-executive directors are appointed on contracts with a three-month notice period and may be awarded fees as 
determined by the Board. 
Executive directors are appointed on contracts with a 12-month notice period. 
Directors’ Remuneration
The following table summarises the rem uneration receivable by the directors for the year ended 31 March 2010.
s alary &
fees 
£000
benefits
(1)
 
£000
sums paid to 
a third party 
for d irectors’ 
services 
£000
year ended  
31 march 
2010 £000
year ended
31 march 
2009
£000
Executive
Michael Sinclair Resigned 4 Feb 10 — 4 24 28 47
José-Luis Vázquez 140 — — 140 200
Neil MacDonald Resigned 27 Mar 08 — — — — 53
Non-executive
Richard Blake Resigned 4 Feb 10 24 — — 24 30
Rafael Martín Sanz — — — — 30
Javier Casanueva Appointed 17 Dec 09 — — — — —
Javier Herrero Appointed 17 Dec 09 — — — — —
Carlos Vizcayno Appointed 17 Dec 09 — — — — —
Francis Coles Appointed 4 Feb 10 3 — — 3 —
Richard Alden Appointed 23 Mar 10 — — — — —
167 4 24 195 360
1
 The remuneration package of Michael Sinclair includes non-cash benefits comprising the provision of life assurance and health insurance.
Directors’ interests
The interests of the directors who held office du ring the year in the shares of the Group at 31 March 2010 were as follows:
number of ordinary shares
31 march 2010 31 march 2009
José-Luis Vázquez* 1,180,242 1,180,242
Rafael Martín Sanz** 4,799,259 4,799,259
Michael Sinclair 1,000 254,761
Richard Blake 5 30
*  Shares held by Fresh Inversiones S.L., a company under the control of José-Luis Vázquez.
**  Asesoría Digital S.L. owns one-third of the issued share capital of Kasei 2000 S.L., Asesoría Digital S.L. is owned by Rafael Martín Sanz and his wife.  
Rafael Martín Sanz is a director of Kasei 2000 S.L.
Under the terms of the Unapproved and Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, the directors as at 31 March 2010 
have an interest in options over ordinary shares of £1.00 each of the Company as follows:
number of options
1 a pril  
2009
granted in  
the year
exercised in 
the year
31 march  
2010
exercise 
price
date from 
which 
exercisable
expiry date
Michael Sinclair 300,000 — — 300,000 £1.096 1 Jan 2011 25 Feb 2018
U nder IFRS 2 (Share based payments), share options which are awarded to directors and employees are subject to a share 
based payment charge which is measured at the fair value of the option at the date of grant and is charged to the income 
statement over the vesting period of the option. This charge is purely an accounting entry and there is no cash related 
cost to the Group. In the year ended 31 March 2010 the 300,000 share options granted to Michael Sinclair incurred a 
charge of £95,000 (year ended 31 March 2009: £165,000).   mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010 mirada plc Annual report and accounts 2010
Financial statements c orporate governance review of the year
independent Auditors’ report to the m embers of mirada plc / 17  16 / statement of directories’ responsibilities
Directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual 
report and the financial statements in accordance with 
applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires  the directors to prepare financial 
statements for each financial year.  Under that law the 
directors have elected to prepare the group financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European 
Union and the company financial statements in 
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted 
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable law).  Under company law the 
directors must not approve the financial statements unless 
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the group and company and of the loss of 
the Group for that period.  The directors are also required 
to prepare financial statements in accordance with the 
rules of the London Stock Exchange for companies trading 
securities on the Alternative Investment Market.  
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are 
required to:
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them  •	
consistently;
make judgements and accounting estimates that are •	
reasonable and prudent;
state whether they have been prepared in accordance •	
with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to 
any material departures disclosed and explained in the 
financial statements;
prepare the financial statements on the going concern •	
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the 
company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate 
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain 
the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the company 
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements 
comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006.  They are also responsible for safeguarding the 
assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable 
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other 
irregularities.
Website publication
The directors are  responsible for ensuring the annual 
report and the financial statements are made available 
on a website.  Financial statements are published on 
the company’s website in accordance with legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and 
dissemination of financial statements, which may vary 
from legislation in other jurisdictions.  The maintenance 
and integrity of the company’s website is the responsibility 
of the directors.  The directors’ responsibility also extends 
to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements 
contained therein.
We have audited the financial statements of mirada plc 
for the year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the 
consolidated income statement, consolidated statement 
of comprehensive income and expense, the consolidated 
statement of changes in equity, the consolidated 
statement of financial position, the consolidated 
statement of cash flows, the company balance sheet and 
the related notes.  The financial reporting framewor k 
that has been applied in the preparation of the group 
financial statements is applicable law and International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the 
European Union.  The financial reporting framework that 
has been applied in preparation of the parent company 
financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom 
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally 
Accepted Accounting Practice). 
This report is made solely to the company’s members, 
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of 
the Companies Act 2006.  Our audit work has been 
undertaken so that we might state to the company’s 
members those matters we are required to state to them 
in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose.  To the 
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or 
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company 
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, 
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibil ities of directors and auditors
As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ 
responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the 
preparation of the financial statements and for being 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view.  Our 
responsibility is to audit the financial statements in 
accordance with applicable law and International 
Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland).  Those standards 
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board’s 
(APB’s) Ethical Standards for Auditors. 
Scope of the audit of the financial statements
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to 
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements 
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by 
fraud or error.  This includes an assessment of: whether 
the accounting policies are appropriate to the group’s 
and the parent company’s circumstances and have 
been consistently applied and adequa tely disclosed; 
the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates 
made by the directors; and the overall presentation of the 
financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements
In our opinion:
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the •	
state of the group’s and the parent company’s affairs 
as at 31 March 2010 and of the group’s loss for the year 
then ended;
the group financial statements have been properly •	
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the 
European Union;
the parent company’s financial statements have been •	
properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom 
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
the financial statements have been prepared in •	
accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 
2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion the information given in the directors’ 
report for the financial year for which the financial 
statements are prepared is consiste nt with the financial 
statements. 
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following 
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to 
report to you if, in our opinion:
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the •	
parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have 
not been received from branches not visited by us; or
the parent company financial statements are not in •	
agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified •	
by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and •	
explanations we require for our audit.
Andrew Viner (senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP , statutory auditor
London 
United Kingdom
8 December 2010
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England 
and Wales (with registered number OC305127)
st Atement oF directors’ responsiBilities independent Auditors’ repo rt  
to the memBers oF mir AdA plc Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 0
Directors’ report: business review
02
Chairman and
Chief Executive’s
statement
‘201 0 was a year of strategic progress and
we have improved our capability to deliver
larger and more complex projects, added
resources in strategically important sectors
and streamlined our structure to serve our
customers better. ’
Paul Smith John Morgan
Chief Executive Executive Chairman
8111 Report 2010_Layout 1  09/03/2011  17:09  Page 02 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 0
Directors’ report: business review
03
A robust performance despite challenging conditions
The Group delivered a robust ﬁnancial performance in 201 0
against the backdrop of continued economic challenges
and reductions in public spending. We are reporting a small
decline in revenue to £2, 1 02m (2009: £2,21 4m) with proﬁt
before tax, amortisation and non-recurring items in line 
with last year at £51 .3m  (2009: £51 .5m). Non-recurring
items of £5. 1 m arose from the acquisition and integration 
of two maintenance businesses and the merger of the
Construction and Infrastructure Services divisions offset 
by a one-off gain on Urban Regeneration’s acquisition of
certain joint venture interests. Proﬁt before tax (after
amortisation and non-recurring items) was £40.7m 
(2009: £44.7m).
Adjusted earnings per share before amortisation of
intangible assets and non-recurring items was 92.9p 
(2009: 93.9p). The Board recommends a ﬁnal dividend 
of 30.0p giving a total dividend for the year maintained 
at 42.0p (2009: 42.0p).
Our year end cash balance was strong at £1 49m (2009:
£1 1 8m) and we achieved, as expected, an increased 
average cash balance for the year of £63m (2009: £31 m).
The Group’s solid ﬁnancial position, including committed
banking facilities of £1 00m available until mid-201 2, ensures
that we retain the capability to fund opportunities as they
arise.
Signi� ��cant progress against our strategy in 2010
We continue to pursue the strategic goal of achieving
leading positions in all of our chosen markets. 201 0 was 
a year of strategic progress and we have improved our
capability to deliver larger and more complex projects,
added resources in strategically important sectors and
streamlined our structure to serve our customers better.
Integrated capability improved through merger of
Construction and Infrastructure Services divisions
The Construction and Infrastructure Services divisions
merged in 201 0 to create a new enlarged division, trading 
as Morgan Sindall. This has enhanced our capability to
deliver integrated construction projects to clients covering
all elements of design, construction and infrastructure. 
The merger created operating eﬃciencies and realised
annualised cost savings of £6m but, more importantly,
places the business in a stronger position to deliver
eﬃciently to the private sector and respond to changing
demands f rom the public sector. The division achieved an
improved operating margin of 2.2% (2009: 2.0%) and
operating proﬁt of £26.9m (2009: £30. 1 m) from revenue of
£1 .3bn (2009: £1 .5bn). The performance of the Construction
& Infrastructure division is broken down on page 41 .
Acquisitions transform Affordable Housing capability
Affordable Housing delivered an improved ﬁnancial
performance in 201 0 with marginally increased revenue 
of £387m (2009: £37 4m) and operating proﬁt of £1 6. 1 m
(2009: £1 4.9m) demonstrating that the division’s full
lifecycle approach to clients’ housing needs and the ability
to mix all forms of tenure is creating opportunities even 
in the most challenging market conditions. The division
acquired Powerminster in June 201 0, and this was
complemented by securing new clients, staff and 
assets from Connaught in September 201 0 to create 
a full-service social housing business covering new build
open market and social housing, and planned and respo nse
maintenance. The Connaught interests were acquired out 
of administration and half of the clients approached have
appointed Affordable Housing as maintenance contractor.
These acquisitions place Affordable Housing in a stronger
position to secure both response and integrated
maintenance opportunities and open up new opportunities
to provide a wider service to its expanded client base.
Growth in London ﬁt out market in 2010
Fit Out achieved signiﬁcant growth in revenue during 
201 0 increasing by 43% to £41 5m (2009: £291 m), with
operating proﬁt increasing to £1 4.8m (2009: £1 3.8m). 
This performance was driven by a number of large schemes
in the London oﬃce ﬁt out market, primarily in the ﬁnancial
services sector. Very challenging conditions persist in the
commercial ﬁt out and refurbishment markets where
intense competition is creating downward pressure on
tender prices. Consequently the operating margin reduced
to 3.6% (2009: 4.7%). During 201 0 the division s treamlined
its structure by combining Vivid Interiors and Overbury to
strengthen its operations in the retail, education, hotel and
leisure sectors and thereby simpliﬁed the division’s offering
in the market. In addition, the strength of the Overbury
brand will help accelerate growth in non-oﬃce markets
where there is opportunity to increase market share.
Directors’ report: business review       02/ / 50
Directors’ report: governance              51/ /72
Consolidated ﬁnancial statements    73/ /1 1 4
Company ﬁnancial statements        115/ /1 27
Shareholder information                            128
8111 Report 2010_Layout 1  09/03/2011  17:09  Page 03 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 0
Directors’ report: business review
04
Chairman and
Chief Executive’s
Statementcontinued
‘Overall we are pleased with the
ﬁnancial performance of the Group 
in 201 0 while the enhancements we
have made to the Group during the
year leave us well placed to meet
 future challenges and opportunities
presented by the market. ’
Innovation improves Urban Regeneration development
portfolio 
In 201 0 Urban Regeneration saw an improvement in 
activity and delivered an improved operating proﬁt of
£2.0m (2009: £0.7m) on revenue of £46m (2009: £32m).
This performance is due to the division’s ﬂexible approach 
and its ability to exploit opportunities in the development
market. An increase in development management fee
income, improved open market residential sales, progress
on a number of forward-sold new developments and land
trading have contributed to this performance. Also during
201 0 a signiﬁcant effort has been made to enhance the
existing portfolio of development schemes through
restructuring and reﬁnancing to improve opportunities 
in the medium-term.
New projects increase the size of the Group’s investment
portfolio
The Investments unit continued to generate construction
opportunities for the operating divisions and also create d
long-term value in its portfolio. During the year £221 m 
of construction revenue was generated from contracts
ﬁnanced by the unit and its partners for the Group’s 
clients. The directors’ valuation of the investment portfolio
increased during the year to £53m (2009: £38m), largely 
as a result of achieving ﬁnancial close on the T ayside 
Mental Health PFI and the Hull BSF programme. 
The basis of calculation for this valuation is on page 49.
Continued stability and ﬁnancial robustness
The Group continued to maintain tight control of working
capital and to drive cost eﬃciencies. Further restructuring
realised annualised cost savings giving £21 m of savings in
the year and £59m of accumulated annualised savings
achieved over the last three years. We remain highly ﬂexible
and able to adjust our organisational structure, either
reducing costs or making investment available in response
to changes in our markets. Our cash performance improved
with average cash balances  for the year of £63m (2009:
£31 m) and a year end cash balance of £1 49m (2009:
£1 1 8m). This position is enhanced by committed banking
facilities of £1 00m in place through to mid-201 2 and a
deﬁned beneﬁt pension deﬁcit of only £2m (2009: £3m).
Advances in the management of our supply chain through
procurement initiatives will further improve operating
eﬃciency, helping to protect our margins and maintain 
our competitiveness in the market in the short-term, and
improving operating margins in the medium-term when
markets recover.
Board changes
As previously announced, Simon Gulliford joined the Board
on 1 March 201 0 and Jon Walden retired from the Board on
6 May 201 0. There were no other changes to the Board
during 201 0.
8111 Report 2010_Layout 1  09/03/2011  17:09  Page 04 Morgan Sindall Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 0
Directors’ report: business review
05
Improved forward order book
The Group’s forward order book at the year end
strengthened by £0 .4bn to £3.6bn (2009: £3.2bn). 
The forward order book represents anticipated future
revenue from secured projects and an estimate of 
work to be awarded under framework arrangements. 
In addition, the Urban Regeneration division maintained 
its development pipeline at £1 .4bn (2009: £1 .4bn).
1.4
1.4
Forward order book – Fit Out £m 
2010 180
2009 171
2010 2.0
2009 1.6
2010 1.5
2009 1.3
Forward order book – Construction & Infrastructure £bn 
    
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
Forward order book – A!ordable Housing  £bn 
T otal forward order book £bn 
2010 3.6
2009 3.2
2010 
2009
Development pipeline – Urban Regeneration £bn 
       
 
 
 
        
        
 
      
     2010: £3.6bn (2009: £3.2bn)
‘Our capabilities in project ﬁnancing,
combined with the construction and
lifecycle services offered by our
divisions, place the Group in an
excellent position to secure proﬁtable
opportunities as they arise. ’
Continued opportunities are created by market changes
The UK c onstruction market is expected to weaken over
the next three years and the industry is now anticipating 
the likely impacts of the changes in public spending
following the Comprehensive Spending Review (’CSR’).
Although capital expenditure directly from the public 
sector will fall in line with the CSR, the underlying need 
for infrastructure investment remains in the key sectors 
of health, housing, energy, transport and education. 
Our capabilities in project ﬁnancing, combined with the
construction and lifecycle services offered by our divisions,
place the Group in an excellent position to secure proﬁtable
opportunities as they arise. Overall we are pleased with 
the ﬁnancial performance of the Group in 201 0 while the
enhancements we have made to the Group during the 
year leave us well placed to meet future challenges and
opportunities presented by the market.
John Morgan Paul Smith
Executive Chairman Chief Executive
4 March 201 1
Directors’ report: business review        02/ / 50
Directors’ report: governance              51/ /72
Consolidated ﬁnancial statements    73/ /1 1 4
Company ﬁnancial statements        115/ /1 27
Shareholder information                            128
8111 Report 2010_Layout 1  09/03/2011  17:09  Page 05 02     Netcall plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
18611.04	 07/10/10	 Proof	4
02     Netcall plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s Review
 
This has been a transformational year for Netcall, 
incorporating key acquisitions supporting our growth strategy. 
Since this time last year we have increased our market 
presence, significantly grown our customer base to over 600 
customers and substantially increased the Group’s revenues 
of a recurring nature which the Board believes provides a solid 
foundation for delivering long-term shareholder value. 
The Group continues to enjoy a strong financial position 
underpinned by a business with high revenue visibility which 
will continue to  support our growth strategy.
Acquisitions
Within a 12 month period Netcall undertook two acquisitions:
Q-Max
In October 2009, Netcall acquired Q-Max, a leading 
UK-based provider of workforce management software to 
contact centres. As well as adding more than 100 new 
customers to Netcall’s existing customer base, this has 
also opened up a new market for the Company. Q-Max’s 
integration was completed to plan and the business 
has performed well during the year, in line with 
management’s expectations. 
 
Telephonetics
On 2 June 2010, the Company announced the recommended 
proposed acquisition of Telephonetics, a UK-based provider 
of speech automation and data integration solutions, along 
with a placing of new Netcall shares at 19p per share to raise 
£4.25m before expenses. The acquisition was made by way 
of a scheme of arrangement and constituted a reverse 
takeover pursuant to the AIM Rules. It was successfully 
completed on 30 July 2010, after Netcall’s financial year  end. 
Integration work has begun and is proceeding according to 
plan, with a number of cost saving and synergistic 
opportunities having been identified. These opportunities 
include cross-selling to the significantly increased customer 
base and reseller channels. The removal of duplicate head 
office costs will also benefit the Group through cost synergies 
and efficiency gains. 
Telephonetics last published set of audited accounts were for 
the year to 30 November 2009, in those accounts it reported 
revenue of £10.5m and profit before tax of £0.4m.
Financials
Group revenue for the 2010 financial year was £4.13m, 
representing an increase of 5% over the prior financial year 
(2009: £3.93m). This improved performance included the 
first time contribution from newly acquired Q-Max of 
£1.19m which compensated for a reduction in 
QueueBuster revenues. 
Revenue of a recurring nature, from our hosted platforms and 
maintenance and support agreements, continues to provide 
good vis ibility of future earnings and increased 10% to 
£3.42m (2009: £3.10m) which represents 83% (2009: 78%) 
of Group revenues. 
Gross profit margin increased by 1% to 91% (2009: 90%) 
including the effect from Q-Max. 
The integration of Q-Max into the Group increased the 
percentage of direct sales as a proportion of Group revenues 
to 58% (2009: 53%).
Costs were monitored closely during the year with 
operating costs increasing marginally by 2%, including the 
effect from Q-Max, to £2.75m (2009: £2.69m), before 
share-based payments, acquisition costs and amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets. At this level gross profit 
achieved from revenues of a recurring nature continue to 
exceed operating costs and provide the Group with a sound 
financial platform.
As a result, the Group recorded a 23% increase in adjusted 
operating profits to £1.02m (2009: £0.83m), a profit margin of 
25% (2009: 21%).
This adjusted operating profit taking into account; (i) share-
based payment charge s of £0.2m; (ii) amortisation charges 
on acquired intangible assets relating to Q-Max of £0.15m; 
(iii) acquisition costs in respect of Q-Max and Telephonetics 
of £0.92m; and (v) lower interest income of £0.13m on a lower 
cash balance following the part-cash acquisition of Q-Max, 
resulted in a loss before tax of £0.23m (2009: profit 
of £0.75m).  www.netcall.com     03
18611.04	 07/10/10	 Proof	4
www.netcall.com     03
The Group continues to benefit from the utilisation of tax 
losses brought forward and therefore has no income tax 
expense. In light of trading in the period, the Board considers 
that a higher proportion of losses are likely to be utilised in the 
future and therefore a deferred tax credit of £0.26m has been 
recorded in the income statement.
Net cash generated from operating activities was £0.37m 
(2009: £1.58m) which was lower than last year due to cost 
of acquisition and timing differences. This combined with 
£2.00m of cash paid to acquire Q-Max resu lted in a cash 
outflow for the year of £1.71m (2009: inflow of £1.25m). 
The Group has a debt-free balance sheet and net cash funds 
of £2.45m at 30 June 2010. This position was strengthened 
further post-year end following a placing on 30 July 2010, 
raising a total of £4.25m (before expenses) through the issue 
of 22,368,420 shares at 19 pence per share. The funds have 
been used to part finance the Telephonetics acquisition and 
for general working capital purposes. 
Market and strategy 
Netcall aims to build a focused software portfolio of 
technologies and applications that provide a seamless 
solution for end-to-end customer engagement, enabling 
our customers to deliver flexibility and excellent 
customer experience, whilst at the same time 
achieving internal efficiencies. 
The recent acquisitions of Q-Max and Telephonetics have 
added products and customer bases that significantly 
broaden our presence and offerings in this space. Our 
product portfolio now includes inbou nd and outbound call 
handling, callback, smart automation, workforce management 
and data unification.
These products can be introduced into an organisation in 
phases, to provide step-by-step improvements, or as a 
complete end-to-end solution from day one. Additional 
flexibility is provided via a combination of hosted or 
premises-based implementation.
The financial position of the Group continues to be robust with 
significant cash resources post-acquisition of Telephonetics of 
£4m and a strong operating model. This position of strength, 
with focus on maintaining financial security underpins the 
Group’s ability to confidently invest in its technology, staff and 
customers. Therefore, Netcall will continue to pursue both an 
organic and acquisitive growth strategy in its fragmented 
market to achieve greater presence and efficiency and deliver 
long-term shareholder value.
Changes to the Board
Netcall is pleased to welcome James Ormondroyd, Michael 
Neville and Mark Brooks to  the Board following completion 
of the acquisition of Telephonetics on 30 July 2010. 
James Ormondroyd joined the Netcall Board as Group 
Finance Director from Telephonetics where he had 
been Finance Director since 2005. Michael Neville, previously 
Telephonetics’ Non-Executive Chairman and Mark Brooks, 
previously a Non-Executive Director of Telephonetics, both 
joined as Non-Executive Directors. 
The Board would also like to take this opportunity to 
welcome all new Q-Max and Telephonetics employees 
and shareholders to the enlarged Group and thank all of our 
staff for their commitment and dedication to the Company 
and its customers.
Outlook
The start to the current financial year has been promising, with 
the first months of this period showing early sales and healthy 
profit levels. Whilst market conditions remain uncertain, the 
Board’s outlook remains confident.
 
Michael Jackson Henrik Bang
Chairman CEO
8 October 2010 2     Nighthawk Energy plc   |   Annual Report and Fi nancial Statements 2010
Macro conditions are more positive compared with 
those of the equivalent period last year, however 
volatility remains. The oil price has been relatively 
stable ranging from US$65 to US$87 per barrel  
during the period.
Approximately US$30 million net was invested by 
Nighthawk during the year in its hydrocarbon projects 
across the US mid-west in partnership with Running 
Foxes Petroleum Inc. (“Running Foxes”), the operator 
of the projects who hold, in most cases, a 50% 
working interest and contributes pro-rata towards  
the project spend.
As anticipated, there has been a relatively substantial 
increase in test production revenues from around 
US$500,000 in 2009 to in excess of US$2 million  
in the latest financial year due to organic growth.  
We expect this figure to increase as more wells  
are put into production.
Jolly Ranch
The project, located in Colorado, comprises three 
areas, Jolly Ranch, Mustang Creek and Middle Mist. 
Hydrocarbon targets  are both conventional oil and 
non-conventional shale oil.
Nighthawk holds a 50% interest in the development 
project and Running Foxes, the remaining 50%.
Known and understood technology now makes 
the development of shale plays around the world, 
including Jolly Ranch, easier - the key is to “crack 
the code” of the shales, a process which takes time 
and capital but yields substantial rewards once 
successful, as has been demonstrated in several 
similar shale oil and gas plays in the USA and 
elsewhere.
In August 2007, Nighthawk’s initial investment in Jolly 
Ranch was approximately 50,000 gross acres. Since 
that time the land base has grown to in excess of 
400,000 gross acres, a substantial land position  
more akin to a major or mid-tier company. 
During this time the level of interest in continental 
US liquid-rich shale-based resource plays has 
been exceptional and it is the aim of management 
to continue to add value to the project through 
ongoing development. Of pa rticular note in the 
immediate region we have seen major independent 
oil companies such as Newfield Exploration Company 
and Unit Corporation commence the drilling of wells 
and most recently Devon Energy acquired a package 
of land.
ChiEf ExECuTivE offiCEr’s sT aTEMENT
i am pleased to report to the shareholders of Nighthawk Energy plc (“Nighthawk” or “the 
Company”) for the first time as CEo. Whilst too early to comment on specific initiatives  
and plans that we will look to introduce over the coming months, it is important to stress  
at this stage that we will, as a priority, review spending to ensure that value is delivered  
for shareholders. There will be a thorough review of strategy and performance to ensure  
that the months and years ahead for Nighthawk are value-adding. Nighthawk Energy plc   |   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010     3
Shale oil resource plays, like Jolly Ranch, are typically large 
homogeneous deposits covering many thousands of acres  
within geological basins. The formation of these shales leads 
to large quantities of oil being generated. This is underlined by, 
Schlumberger’s report indicating some 1.4 billion barrels of oil 
in place over just 246,000 acres at Jolly Ranch. A great deal of 
the generated oil remains in-situ. The oil bearing rock has in 
some cases low permeability and porosity, therefore the shale 
formation needs to be fractured with high pressure fluids and 
sand to accelerate the flow of oil.
The key to obtaining optimum value from Jolly Ranch is to 
determine the most efficient method of fracturing the multiple 
stacked hydrocarbon-bearing horizons present in each of the 
production wells.
The timing for this initial phase of appraisal is longer than 
for a conventional development. However, once the shale 
formations are properly understood and can demonstrate  
long term production, as we are now starting to see from  
some of our wells, the application to the wider area is 
precipitated  given the homogeneous nature of the shales, 
creating value for shareholders.
Subsequent to their July 2009 report on the oil in place at 
Jolly Ranch, Schlumberger has been re-appointed to examine 
the hydrocarbon-bearing potential of the wider project area 
further and also to undertake a more detailed study to evaluate 
potential production profiling in a reservoir simulation model 
which will assess recovery factors from several different oil 
bearing horizons. Once this report has been completed the 
results will be passed to Gaffney Cline & Associates to assess 
and determine reserves and resources at Jolly Ranch.
Due to the early phase of development at Jolly Ranch and the 
way that reserves and resources are attributable to shale oil 
plays it is anticipated that the reserves associated with the 
core area of project will be relatively low at this stage of the 
development. However the fact that they can be estimated 
is testament to the work and production undertaken and 
pro duction achieved to date, but more importantly, will for 
the first time provide shareholders and stakeholders a viable, 
industry recognised, method to determine value on the core 
(and also wider) acreage areas.
As expected, the recent independent report compiled by 
Schlumberger has concluded that the regional continuity of 
the shale formations was such that the resources in place are 
laterally continuous from the core area to the John Craig 7-2 
well, a distance of approximately 30 miles from the core Craig 
Ranch area.
As anticipated, there has been a 
relatively substantial increase in 
production revenues from around  
US$500,000 in 2009 to in excess  
of US$2 million in the latest financial 
year due to organic growth. 4     Nighthawk Energy plc   |   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Revere
Revere, the product of the consolidation of the Devon Oilfield, 
Buchanan and Wordon, Xenia fields and the recently acquired 
Hammond project, is a combined oil waterflood and g as project, 
covering in excess of 60,000 acres located on and around the 
Kansas and Missouri State borders.
The oil reservoir is under-pressured and requires water injection to 
help bring the oil to surface. This is a straightforward process that 
has been applied successfully for decades on similar oilfields in the 
USA and elsewhere in the world.
The Xenia gas project was brought on-stream in November 2009 
and is an important contributor to revenues with gas production 
in excess of 500,000 cubic feet per day. The 26 kilometre pipeline 
at Xenia was completed on time and on budget linking to the 50% 
Nighthawk owned and operated Bourbon County pipeline where 
product is sold to a subsidiary of General Electric.
A recent Xenia reserve evaluation conducted by Oilfield Production 
Consultants Limited showed total net 2P reserves to be  
1.4 billion cubic feet over just 6,000 acres. The project area  
since the evaluation has grown to in excess of 15,000 acres.
Oil production is incr easing at Devon and Buchanan with over  
100 wells on production, a figure growing as more recently  
drilled wells are put on-line.
New acquisitions such as Hammond and Green Valley are also 
expected to provide further revenue growth to what is now a 
substantial low-cost stand-alone project in the Nighthawk portfolio.
Full details of the Company’s projects can be found in the Review 
Of Operations section of the Annual Report on pages 6 to 19.
Corporate and Financial
The financial results for the year continue to reflect the operations 
of an active hydrocarbon appraisal and development company.
In comparison to the results of 2009 on a like-for-like basis:
• Non-current assets increased by 42% from US$75.18 million  
to US$106.78 million
• Revenue increased by 332%
• Operating loss reduced by 23%
As a post balance sheet event we are pleased to announce 
completion of an Equity Finance Facility (“EFF”) with Darwin 
Strategic Limited (“Darwin”) a part of the Evolution  Group.
The EFF, which is for £25 million, provides Nighthawk with a facility 
which, subject to certain limited restrictions, can be drawn down  
at any time over the next three years; the timing and amount  
of any draw down is at the discretion of Nighthawk.
Nighthawk is under no obligation to make a draw down and may 
make as many draw downs as it wishes, up to the total value of 
the EFF, by way of issuing subscription notices to Darwin. The 
subscription price for any Ordinary Shares to be subscribed  
by Darwin under a subscription notice will be at a 5.0% discount 
to an agreed reference price determined during 5, 10 or 15 trading 
days following delivery of a subscription notice. Nighthawk Energy plc   |   Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010     5
Nighthawk has entered into a warrant agreement for the 
grant to Darwin of warrants to subscribe for up to 3,000,000 
Ordinary Shares, such warrants to be exercisable at a price 
of 20 pence per share and to be exercisable a t any time prior 
to the expiry of 36 months following the date of the warrant 
agreement. The agreement also grants to Darwin warrants  
to subscribe for up to 1,500,000 Ordinary Shares, exercisable 
at a price of 10 pence per share, to be exercisable 24 months 
after the signing of the agreement if Nighthawk does not make 
use of the facility in this period - or draws down less than  
£5 million during the first 24 months of the agreement.
There are no upfront costs associated with the facility, other 
than both parties’ legal fees. The Company intends to put 
resolutions to shareholders at the forthcoming annual general 
meeting to facilitate the utilisation of the facility.
The EFF will give Nighthawk the financial flexibility to continue 
to develop Jolly Ranch and ultimately to deliver value for 
shareholders. The Board considered a number of financing 
options and it was clear that this route has the potential  
to deliver a lower level of dilution to existing shareholders  
 as the Company will control the draw down rate and the 
discount rate is considered by the board as more favourable 
than raising equity in the markets at present.
During the year under review the non–executive management 
was strengthened by the appointment of Stuart Eaton who was 
previously a senior fund manager at Insight Asset Management.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank David Bramhill 
and Joe O’Farrell, who both retired in September 2010, for their 
work in assisting the Company to where it is today. We wish 
them all the best in their future endeavours.
Outlook
On the ground we expect the upcoming reserves report to 
continue to delineate the Jolly Ranch project and allow value  
to be accurately defined as we continue our development 
work. Over the coming weeks we will look closely at the current 
portfolio and its anticipated returns profile and look to adapt 
our strategy to ensure shareholders obtain the best value as 
the Company grows. We look forw ard to updating the market  
in due course.
Timothy Heeley 
CEO 
20 October 2010  4
I am pleased to be able to report to the shareholders of 
Bluebird Energy Limited (“Bluebird” or “the Company”)  
of progress being made in both operational and 
corporate aspects in this Annual Report and Financial 
Statements for the year ended 30 June 2010.
Probably of more importance are the corporate 
events of the first quarter of 2011 rather than 
the historical review of the past fiscal year.
At the General Meeting held on 4 February 2011, 
several resolutions were passed which included the 
change of name to Bluebird Energy Limited from 
Osceola Hydrocarbons Limited, to proceed with 
the re-registration as a public company, and the 
adoption of new articles of association appropriate 
for a company to be admitted to trading on the AIM 
market of the London Stock Exchange, a goal which 
the Company plans to achieve during Q2 of 2011. 
In addition, via an oversubscribed Placing and Open 
 Offer held during late January and early February 2011, 
the Company raised £1.5 million before expenses. This 
was the Company’s first funding since October 2008.
While world markets have seen some catastrophic failures 
since October 2008, Bluebird, operating as a private 
company has kept its asset base relatively intact and 
brought into production a development project which has 
achieved a modest maiden contribution to cash flow. The 
aspirations of building a successful trading entity remain 
the same and we have the building blocks to achieve this. 
WH Ireland Limited (“WHI”) has been engaged  
as broker and advisers to the Company and we  
are working together to apply for admission to AIM  
in Q2 2011. On the proposed admission to AIM, 
WHI will become nominated advisers to Bluebird. 
The Board of Directors of Bluebird has been 
restructured to comply with the Corporate 
Governance needs of a publicly quoted company.
I have been appointed as Chief Executive Officer. In  
addition, I have more than 20 years experience in multi-
discipline corporate advisory and stockbroking activities 
within the AIM, small and mid-cap companies, including 
being a founder member of Evolution Securities where 
I acted as an executive director and Head of Research. 
I am also retained as a capital markets consultant by 
McCall, Aitken McKenzie & Co., a private equity advisory 
specialist in the international oil and gas sector.
John Michaels has been appointed as a non-executive 
director. John is a geologist with over 20 years experience 
in the hydrocarbon industry and brings excellent credentials, 
with a BA and MSc degrees in Petroleum Geology. He 
spent a number of years working for BP Exploration 
before moving into international consultancy and business 
development. John is also the principal of ShaleGas 
Resources Limited, a company focused on shale gas 
projects in Europe and is currently assisting Bluebird 
on an exclusive basis with its entry into this sect or. 
The Company intends to make a further non-executive 
appointment prior to the AIM admission.
“The strategy for Bluebird remains 
straightforward; to exploit hydrocarbon 
business opportunities in the  
United States of America and Europe.”
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 5 BlueBird energy AnnuAl report 2010
Going forward as a quoted Company, careful 
deliberation has been applied to our current asset 
base and its place within the Bluebird portfolio. 
The strategy of the Company is to offer shareholders and 
potential investors a balanced and selective hydrocarbon 
investment opportunity with production, development 
and exploration potential within the US and in Europe 
where ShaleGas Resources Limited is working with us 
to source and manage new shale gas opportunities. 
The upside potential for shale gas is well documented, 
especially in the US where several established shale 
gas projects such as the Marcellus, Woodford and 
Bakken, amongst others are in production.  Bluebird 
holds interests in the Woodford shale via the Centurion 
project and the Marcellus in Pennsylvania.
Over the last 20 years new technologies such as 
fraccing and horizontal drilling have been introduced to 
hydrocarbon exploration to good effect and are catalysts 
for the current significant increase in shale gas exploration 
and production. What were once deemed commercially 
unviable shale prospects have now been transformed into 
major non-conventional production areas of the US.
Following some 20 years of shale gas development in 
the US, a land grab together with exploration is underway 
in Europe. ExxonMobil is active in Lower Saxony, 
ConocoPhillips in Poland, Austria’s OMV is exploring near 
Vienna and Shell is targeting Sweden. In addition the 
United Kingdom is seeing activity in this emerging sector. 
There are several European countries lagging behind  
their neighbours in respect of shale gas exploration. 
Those areas which are considered to have comparable 
e xploration upside to the regions highlighted above 
would include the Iberian Penninsula, Romania, Ireland 
and some parts of the United Kingdom. These regions 
will be targeted by Bluebird during the coming months.
The shale gas focus will complement the low risk 
onshore Centurion development project located in the 
US and our other project interests described below.
Centurion
The Centurion project, a conventional oil play, 
50% owned by Bluebird is a production and 
development enterprise, located in Sumner County, 
Kansas, covering approximately 15,000 acres. 
Three wells have been in production since 2009 and the 
average net cash flow to Bluebird is US$300,000 per year. 
Production from these wells is from the Mississippian “chat” 
reservoir from an average depth of 3,400 feet. The quality 
of oil gravity is very good with an average of 40 API. There 
is a ready market for our product, currently being sold to 
Plains Marketing LLC, one of the largest distributors in 
the US.  In addition, a water disposal well is operational.
The bulk of acreage held comprises the prolific Sauzek oil 
field and at least 70 other previously abandoned production 
ventures from multiple Paleozoic reservoirs. Exploration 
within the area has been continuous since the 1920’s.
The primary targets remain in the “chat”, Mississippian 
carbonates and Ordovician Simpson sandstone 
reservoirs. A drilling programme is expected to 
commence in Q2 2011, the results of which are 
expected to increase production and extend the oilfield 
to the northeast and southwest. A seismic survey and 
further drilling is also planned post AIM flotation.
The geology in the project area is well understood. The 
Sedgwick Basin covers an area in excess of 8,000 square 
miles. The reservoirs are structurally controlled and typically 
demonstrate good to excellent porosity and permeability.
Each well is expected to cost US$250,000 net to 
Bluebird to completion and can be brought into 
production in w eeks. On 40 acre spacing there are some 
300+ potential well sites within the acreage held.
“ On 40 acre spacing there are some 
300+ potential well sites within the 
Centurion acreage held.” 6
“ The Solitaire project is drill ready and 
following geological studies and completion 
of re-interpretation of aeromagnetic data 
drill targets have been established.”
Solitaire
The Solitaire project, 100% owned by Bluebird, is a 
pure exploration venture covering approximately 47,000 
acres in Kit Carson County, southeastern Colorado. The 
project primarily targets the Cretaceous Niobrara play 
which is currently being exploited by several companies 
in the region. Further potential production zones include 
Lansing- Kansas City and Mississippian horizons.
The project area is on trend with several large producing 
gas fields operated by Berry Petroleum, Noble Drilling, 
Delta Petroleum and Rosewood Resources.
The Solitaire project is drill ready and, following 
geological studies and  completion of re-interpretation of 
aeromagnetic data, drill targets have been established. 
A major gas pipeline with high take-away capacity 
runs through the centre of the acreage held.
The strategy in respect of Solitaire is to retain 
the project within the portfolio and actively seek 
partners to share drilling costs going forward.
Revloc 
The Revloc project covers approximately 20,000 acres 
in Cambria County, Pennsylvania, the hydrocarbon 
prolific north eastern region of the Appalachian Basin, 
which has been producing coal seam gas since the 
1930’s. Bluebird holds a 50% interest in the project. 
There is a significant gas market nearby on 
the US eastern Seaboard which would reduce 
transport and storage costs when developed.
Development work in 2007/2008 was encouraging with 
seven wells drilled to evaluate the separate coal horizons 
between 300 to 1,500 feet in the Palaezoic Carboniferous 
formations and determine gas content, which proved to 
be as high as 590 scf/ton.  Since drilling, rights of way 
have been acquired to construct a pipeline to a main tap.
Although believed economic at current gas prices, the Board 
of Directors is presently undecided in respect of the best 
route to take in achieving the maximum value from the 
project. Discussions will take place with the other partners 
during the next few months to decide whether to develop as 
a full production facility or to dispose of via an industry sale. 
Marcellus Shale
Bluebird holds a 78% interest in 4,817 acres 
in the highly regarded Marcellus shale acreage 
in the Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania. 
This project has evolved and expanded from the 
Revloc project where Devonian Marcellus shales were 
intersected during drilling for Coal Bed Methane.
The Marcellus shale is a middle Devonian, black, low 
density, carbonaceous shale that occurs below surface in 
large areas of Ohio, Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York. 
While the presence of natural gas is well documented, it 
was not unti l horizontal drilling and fraccing techniques 
were applied that the full potential of the Marcellus 
shale was understood, and subsequently exploited, 
resulting in an upgrade to “super giant” gas field status. 
Pennsylvania State University has suggested the potential 
of in excess of 4,300 TCF present in the formation.
Major participants in the Marcellus shale include 
Royal Dutch Shell, ExxonMobil and Statoil.
Strategically, Bluebird is reviewing the status 
of this potentially high value asset with 
development or industry sale possibilities. 
Marion Trenton, Shogun 
and Twin Buttes
As mentioned earlier, careful deliberation has been 
given to every one of the assets within the current 
Bluebird portfolio and the merits of their inclusion 
going forward to the planned admission AIM.
The prudent decision to dispense and impair some early 
stage projects with potentially high ongoing development 
costs, namely Marion Trenton, Shogun and Twin Buttes 
has been made. This has led t o an impairment of Intangible 
Assets of US$1,154,993, of land assets of US$193,756 
and plant and machinery assets of US$49,924 being 
reflected in the Report and Accounts. Following this exercise 
the total assets of Bluebird are valued at US$21,942,295. 
The Board is still reviewing Big Sky, with discussions 
with the operator ongoing in respect of drilling a 
horizontal well following recent favourable results 
by other companies exploring in the region.  BlueBird energy AnnuAl report 2010 7
“ Bluebird holds a 78% interest in 
4,817 acres in the highly regarded 
Marcellus shale acreage in the 
Appalachian Basin in Pennsylvania.” 
Investments
Wessex Exploration PLC
In October 2009 Bluebird disposed of its non US 
assets to Wessex Exploration PLC (“Wessex”) for a 
consideration of 54,049,934 shares, which equates to 
an approximate 14% holding in that company. Wessex 
is currently a PLUS- market quoted company with a mid 
price of 4p at the time of writing. Wessex is expected  
to obtain admission to AIM during March 2011. 
Wessex holds a 1.25% interest in the Guyane Maritime 
Exclusive Exploration Licence off-shore French Guiana. 
Partners in the licence are; Tullow, Shell, Total, Northern 
Petroleum and Wessex. Drilling on the Zaedyus 
prospect with P10 volumes estimated to be 700 million 
barrels is expected to commence in March 2011.
AltaWind Energy Inc
Bluebird holds an approximate 45% interest in AltaWind 
Energy Inc, a renewable energy company committed  
to the implementation of environmental energy solutions  
in the US.
As part of the ongoing review of operations the 
Company is in discussions with several companies in 
respect of either an industry sale or corporate activity 
which may lead to a joint venture with other parties. 
Royalties
A royalty investment or interest gives the owner a 
fixed share of the revenue, after costs, from the sale of 
hydrocarbons from a property. Royalty interests provide 
an alternative method of investment in the  energy 
sector and offer monthly income with an attractive risk-
reward profile. Bluebird holds a 5.3% royalty interest 
in Cimarron Properties operated by Madison Capital 
Investment LLC. The rate of return in respect of this 
investment since 2008 has ranged from 5.0% to 19%.
The Future
The financial year ended 30 June 2010 has been 
one of consolidation and preparation for becoming 
a publicly quoted company on a recognised trading 
exchange. Since that financial period, several corporate 
changes and actions have been implemented within the 
Company in respect of our planned admission to AIM.
Bluebird has the advantage of having within its portfolio  
a development project already demonstrating its ability  
to provide cash flow. In addition, there are numerous 
projects with the potential to provide hydrocarbon 
production in due course.
The new focus on European shale gas will provide 
exploration excitement, as and when permits and licences 
are awarded. 
The equity holding in  Wessex also provides value to 
shareholders with upside potential.
I believe that the future of Bluebird remains bright  
and look forward to your continued support. 
Andrew Yeo
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2011
  Reckitt Benckiser 2010 2
Chief Executive’s Statement
tablets in the USA, can become subject to 
generic competition at any time. To mitigate 
the potential impact of this, in August 2010 
we launched a patent-protected and consumer 
preferred Suboxone film. The new film is a 
variant on the tablet. It dissolves faster and 
tastes much better, and as a result keeps 
patients in treatment longer. Compliance with 
the treatment regime, and the fact that the 
film is better from a child safety point of view, 
make it more attractive for doctors to prescribe. 
Conversion has been so successful that at the 
end of 2010 the film had already captured 
a 25% volume share of the US market. At 
this level it already represents 23% of the US 
revenues on an annualised basis.
Focused 	acquisition
As a result of the strong success of the 
business, adjusted net income grew by +15%*. 
This was despite the fact that we took a more 
conservative position on tax as the general 
tax environment has become less benign, and 
increased the tax rate from 25% to 26%. 
Underlying cash flow continued to be strong, 
another sign of the health of the business. 
Some of this hard-earned cash was reinvested 
in what we believe are strategic and financially 
compelling acquisitions.
All of the transactions increased our presence 
in the higher margin Health & Personal Care 
business, where we have built a track record  
of strong growth. Foremost among these  
was the purchase of SSL International which  
we announced in July and completed on  
29 October. 
In many of these countries, the categories in 
which RB normally operates barely exist or 
are very underdeveloped. Good examples are 
Veet depilatories, Harpic specialist toilet bowl 
cleaners and Vanish fabric treatment product s. 
Launching our Powerbrands in these countries 
is therefore not just focused on carving 
out strong market share positions. More 
importantly it is focused on showing consumers 
the benefits of these products so that they 
become part of their regular needs as they care 
for their families, homes and themselves. In 
2010 we continued our Powerbrand roll out in 
these countries.
In the more developed countries of Europe 
and North America markets retrenched. Heavy 
discounting by competitors, trying to counter 
volume declines as consumers came under 
pressure, led to negative market growth rates. 
Despite these conditions, we improved our 
market share on balance in these markets and 
eked out modest revenue growth.
As we make our Powerbrands bigger in 
new and existing markets, we get operating 
leverage and a better product mix, resulting 
in higher operating margins. This, combined 
with excellent cost optimisation in our supply 
chain, enabled us to deliver operating margin 
imp rovement of 200 basis points, taking it 
to 26.4% for the Group. Margins were also 
helped by the continued success of our RB 
Pharmaceuticals business.
RB	Pharmaceuticals
It is well known that by far the largest part of 
the Pharmaceuticals business, the Suboxone 
I	am	pleased	to	report	that	Reckitt	
Benckiser	enjoyed	another	year	of	market	
beating	results	despite	a	global	market	
growth	rate	that	steadily	declined	as	the	
year	progressed.	
As targeted for 2010, we delivered like-for-like 
net revenue growth of +6%* for the Group 
excluding SSL, and +5%* for the business 
excluding SSL and RB Pharmaceuticals. Total 
adjusted income growth at +15%* was also 
very strong and again well ahead of our peers. 
Powerbrand	focus
Our strong and continued success confirms 
that our strategy of focusing on Powerbrands 
behind new consumer relevant innovations and 
high levels of support continues to work for us.
Our new Lysol/Dettol No-Touch Hand Soap 
System is a great example of such innovati ons. 
This automatic dispenser is a captive  
gadget-refill system and while one of our 
most technologically advanced products it is 
the convenience of it and the benefit of not 
having to touch a germy soap dispenser ever 
again that has made it so successful. It has 
also allowed us to take mostly surface oriented 
brands like Lysol in the USA or Dettol in the  
UK more into Personal Care, breaking new 
ground and creating future opportunities for 
these brands.
Our Powerbrand focus over the last decade 
is also delivering excellently in developing 
markets. Net revenue growth in these markets 
soared to a +18%* like-for-like growth rate. 
A	proven	strategy	
Our clear and consistent strategy is to drive 
above industry growth and returns through: 
•  A disproportionate focus on driving our 
Powerbrands, global leaders in categories 
with high growth potential, and completing 
their international roll out. 
•  High levels of media and marketing 
investment, and continuous innova tion. 
•  Transforming net revenue growth into ever 
better profit and strong cash flow.
* at constant exchange rates Reckitt Benckiser 2010 3
The	bigger	picture
Their commitment goes beyond the commercial 
and is also focused on the planet’s environment 
and supporting those most vulnerable in our 
society. Last year we made significant progress 
towards our goal of reducing the total carbon 
footprint of products during their creation, 
their use and ultimately their disposal, by 
20% by 2020. In only two years we have 
already achieved an 11% reduction – the same 
impact as taking nearly one million cars off the 
road. RB was ranked joint-first in the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) 2010 FTSE 350 Report, 
and Sector Leader in its 2010 Global 500 
Report; recognising our performance on both 
the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index and 
Carbon Performance Leadership Index. 
We also helped to save children’s lives through 
our support of Save the Children in their 
emergency re sponse work in places such as 
Haiti and Pakistan, and for their programmes  
to help children in many other countries  
around the world. Last year we helped to save 
160,000 lives.
In conclusion, Reckitt Benckiser can look to 
2011 with confidence. We have come through 
2010 very well despite increasingly challenging 
conditions, and although the new year may 
hold a new set of challenges, our strategy, 
our innovation driven by our people and the 
new opportunities from acquisitions give us 
confidence that we can continue to deliver 
success.
Bart	Becht	Chief Executive
This transaction step changes the size of our 
Health & Personal Care category, increasing its 
net revenues by an anticipated 36% to make it 
one third of the Group’s total net revenues.  
It has added two new Powerbrands with good 
further growth potential, taking our current 
arsenal to 19 Powerbrands in total. Durex, in 
the Sexual Wellbeing category, is the global 
No.1 condom brand and Scholl is the market 
l eader in the Footcare category in many of the 
markets where it is present. This acquisition 
also materially enhances the scale and critical 
mass of our businesses in China and Japan. 
Later in the year we also agreed to acquire 
Paras Pharmaceuticals in India. This will create 
a material health care business for us in one 
of the most promising health care markets in 
the world. It adds to our portfolio a number 
of leading Indian over-the-counter Health & 
Personal Care brands including: Moov, the No.1 
topical analgesic pain ointment and D’Cold, the 
No.2 cold & flu remedy. 
RB	people
Through each of the acquisitions we made 
last year, we welcomed new employees to 
RB. These employees will be integral to our 
success in coming years. Our culture and 
the characteristics of our employees are our 
greatest competitive advantages. RB people 
are entrepreneurial, innovative, internationally 
diverse, dynamic and driven by a strong sense 
of ownership. Their performance and ours 
i s underpinned by their ability not to submit 
to difficult market conditions but to excel by 
responding in innovative ways.
Group	financial	highlights	
 2010 2009 change 
 £m £m %
Net revenues  8,453 7,753 +9
Operating profit 2,130 1,891 +13
Net income for the year  1,568 1,418 +11
Diluted earnings per share  213.8p 194.7p +10
Adjusted operating profit*  2,231 1,891 +18
Adjusted net income for the year*  1,661 1,418 +17
Adjusted diluted earnings per share* 226.5p 194.7p +16
Declared dividend per share 115.0p 100.0p +15
*adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items and tax effect thereon, where appropriate
Diluted earnings per share pence
180 120 60
10 09 08 07 06
0 240
10 09 08 07 06
Adjusted net income £m 
*adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items
2000 1600 1200 800 400 0
0
60
120
180
240
Dividend per share pence
80 60 40 20
10 09 08 07 06
0 120 100
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
*adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items
0
400
800
1200
1600
2000
905*
786*
1,143 *
1,661
*
1,418*
123.4*
107.1*
157.8*
226.5
*
194.7*
55.0
45.5
80.0
115.0
100.0 RPC Containers Market Rasen has
redesigned the innovative reusable
JUGIT™, the core of Dairy Crest’s
innovative new concept in milk packaging
that is being rolled-out nationwide
in Sainsbury’s stores following a
successful trial.
Beiersdorf has chosen RPC Kutenholz as its
partner for the development and supply of
an enhanced version of its 500 ml bottle
for Nivea Baby. Thanks to the new,
compact packaging design, the baby care
products now find a better presentation at
point-of-sale along with consumer friendly
application features.
2 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2010
Although revenue in 2009/10 reduced
from £769.1m to £719.9m, largely as a
consequence of a 4% reduction in
sales volumes, adjusted operating
profit improved by £5.4m and reached
a record level of £40.9m. The
significant cost reductions achieved
through the RPC 2010 programme
more than offset the impact of lower
volumes whilst  gross margins were
restored to a more acceptable level.
The adjusted basic earnings per share
1
increased by 8.4p to 26.4p. The Group
achieved a net profit for the year of
£13.2m reversing a prior year loss of
£7.7m. A continued strong cash
performance resulted in the net debt
being reduced by a further £36.4m to
£80.2m.
Overview of the Year
The activity levels during the year
remained subdued as the economic
environment continued to be relatively
weak. Whilst overall sales volumes
were 4% lower than the previous year,
volumes were relatively flat when
compared with the second half of
2008/09 with some signs of
improvement towards the end of the
financial year. Activity levels in the UK
proved to be more robust than in
mainland Europe as sales volumes in
this region improved by 2%.
Approximately 59% of the Group’s
products are delivered to the relatively
resilient food sector. The non-food
sectors showed a mixed picture in
terms of demand depending on the
geographical region and  end-sector
served with the personal care and
cosmetics sector impacted by
de-stocking early in 2009/10. Further
de-stocking effects are not anticipated.
During the year the RPC 2010
improvement programme continued to
be successfully implemented. The
production sites at Raunds (UK),
Ravenstein (the Netherlands), Halfweg
(the Netherlands), Aš (Czech Republic)
and Mozzate (Italy) were closed and
further cost optimisation measures
were taken across all other sites,
including the closure of the
distribution satellite locations in
Poland and Romania. The number of
people employed by the Group has
been reduced by 14% from
approximately 6,900 at the start of the
programme to circa 5,900 as at the
end of March 2010. The Group is
presently executing the second phase
of RPC 2010 which includes the
proposed closure of the Goor site in
the Netherlands.
Polymer costs represented
approximately 30% of the Group’s
turnover. Although polymer prices
were on average at similar levels to the
previous y ear, they started the year at
a relatively low level and appreciated
by more than 40% during the year, a
trend which has continued into the
new financial year. The Group is
confident that the majority of these
cost increases can be passed through
to the customer base although there is
generally a time lag before this can be
realised. The underlying dynamics of
the polymer market remain favourable
as significant additional polymer
capacity is coming on stream.
RPC is at the forefront of polymer
conversion technology in the
packaging industry and has developed
a good reputation in the market place
for innovative packaging design and
concepts. During the year several
innovative designs have come to
market whilst process developments
with the aim of producing lighter
weight packaging continued to make
good progress. The interest of
customers in conversion projects from
other packaging materials such as glass
and metal continued to increase.
Financial Highlights
Revenue for the year of £71 9.9m was
6% down on last year’s £769.1m
mainly due to lower sales volumes
with favourable exchange rate
movements largely offset by lower
Chairman and Chief Executive’s Report
Job No.: 3984 Proof Event: 14 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2010 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
1
Adjusted basic earnings per share is
defined as adjusted profit before tax less
underlying tax at 28.5% (2009: 29.0%)
divided by the weighted average number
of shares in issue during the year.
3984 RPC Annual Report pp01-41:3984 RPC Annual Report pp01-41  16/6/10  14:29  Page 2 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2010 3
Job No.: 3984 Proof Event: 14 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2010 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
average selling prices as a consequence
of polymer pass-through
arrangements. Adjusted operating
profit was however 15% higher at
 £40.9m (2009: £35.5m) despite the
absence of profit on sale of properties
which contributed £2.5m to the
2008/09 result. Cost reduction
measures more than offset the adverse
effect of lower volumes whilst gross
margins improved. The adjusted profit
before tax
2
increased by 45% to
£36.5m (2009: £25.1m) due to the
higher operating profit and
significantly lower interest charges.
Adjusted EBIT margins improved to
5.7% of revenue (2009: 4.6%) and the
adjusted EBITDA increased to £75.6m
(2009: £69.1m). The ROCE for the full
year was 11.8% compared with 9.1%
the previous year. Restructuring and
impairment costs, in total amounting
to £18.1m (2009: £25.8m), were
incurred in relation to the RPC 2010
programme.
Net cash from operating activities
continued to be strong at £64.7m
(2009: £99.5m) due to a good operating
performance, lower tax and interest
charges and a further improvement of
the working capital position. Working
capital efficiency measured as a
percentage of sales impro ved to 3.6%
compared with 5.7% last year. Net debt
at the year end was £80.2m (2009:
£116.6m) and gearing reduced to 51%
(2009: 68%).
Capital expenditure paid of £28.0m
(2009: £33.4m) was below the
depreciation level of £34.4m reflecting
the focus on cash optimisation. The
targeted capital expenditure provided
the Group with the ability to continue
to invest in new projects thereby
creating a competitive advantage
relative to less well financed
competitors. The Group is committed
to invest in projects that are
innovative, provide a competitive
advantage and generate attractive
returns. Capital expenditure net of
disposals reduced to £23.3m
(2009: £26.3m).
Strategy
The Group is now in the second phase
of the RPC 2010 programme,
continuing the cost reduction
programme combined with optimising
the cash flow and installing a focus on
continuous improvement. The steady
state structural benefits of RPC 2010
are presently estimated to be at
least £19m per annum of which
approximately  £14m had been
realised by March 2010. In addition to
these structural cost reductions
several more volume related cost
measures pertaining to manning levels
have been initiated which reduces the
cost base by a further £4m. The
associated exceptional charges for the
total programme are currently
estimated at circa £43m of which
£38m has been recognised in the
income statements of the past two
years. The Group’s target is to achieve
an average of 15% ROCE across the
economic cycle following the
completion of RPC 2010. In this
context it is encouraging to note the
improvement from 9% to 12% ROCE
achieved this year.
The Board has reviewed the strategic
options beyond RPC 2010, which is
due for completion in March 2011,
and concluded that the Group is
well positioned to achieve growth
by building on its existing strong
market positions and technological
know-how. Packaging is forecast to
grow in line with GDP with rigid plastic
growing faster due to the ongoing
substitution effect fro m other
packaging materials. Opportunities for
organic and acquisitive growth are
currently being explored, both in the
European market as well as in less
mature higher growth markets outside
Europe.
2
Adjusted profit before tax is defined as
operating profit before restructuring,
closure and impairment charges less net
interest.
RPC Bramlage has assisted L’Oréal with the
creation of a patented sealing technology
for its latest roll-on product. The container
for Garnier Deodorant Mineral delivers a
combination of ergonomic design, fresh
and vibrant colours, and a new bayonet
locking mechanism.
Symington’s has opted for RPC Blackburn’s
430 ml Snack Pot, a robust and attractive
option ideal for hot noodle snacks, for the
launch of Golden Wonder: The Nation’s
Noodle.
3984 RPC Annual Report pp01-41:3984 RPC Annual Report pp01-41  16/6/10  14:29  Page 3 Chairman and Chief Executive’s Report continued
4 RPC Group annual report and accounts 2010
Board and Personnel
Following the co mpletion of the
review of the composition of the
Board, which considered its size and
balance, the Board was reduced from
11 to 7 members during the year.
It has been necessary to propose the
closure of the UK pension scheme to
both new entrants and future service
accrual with effect from 31 July 2010
and to replace it with a contract based
defined contribution plan. The
participating companies in the UK are
currently engaged in a 60 day
consultation with affected employees.
As a consequence of our decentralised
structure we are able to provide many
opportunities for individuals to make
their own contribution to the Group.
We appreciate the outstanding efforts
by all who together have enabled the
Group to confront the difficult market
conditions and regret that it has been
necessary to continue to reduce the
number of people employed by the
Group.
Dividend
The Board is recommending an
increase in the final dividend to 7.4p
per share (2009: 6.4p) making a total
for the year of 10.5p (20 09: 9.3p). This
represents an increase of 12.9% over
the previous year thereby continuing
the Group’s progressive dividend
policy. Subject to approval at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
the final dividend will be paid on
3 September 2010 to shareholders on
the register on 6 August 2010.
Outlook
The Group’s competitive position has
improved due to a continued
commitment to customers in terms of
innovation and investment whilst
operating in a challenging economic
environment. We will continue to
benefit from a strong market position
in the relatively resilient food market,
which currently accounts for around
59% of sales. Whilst polymer prices
have steadily increased during the
year, the Group is in a position to
recover these increases with the
majority of the customer base albeit
with a time lag. The restoration of
gross margins to more acceptable
levels as witnessed this past year is
expected to be largely sustainable. RPC
2010 remains on schedule with the
final benefits c oming through in the
financial year 2011/12. The main short
term uncertainty continues to be the
volume outlook although a further
deterioration in activity levels is
currently not anticipated. The new
financial year has started satisfactorily
with the recent encouraging trend in
terms of volumes continuing.
Rigid plastic packaging can be
expected to grow faster than GDP
which combined with our enhanced
competitive position, a structurally
lower cost base and a renewed focus
on growth leads the Board to believe
that the Group’s prospects are good.
J R P Pike R J E Marsh
Chairman Chief Executive
Job No.: 3984 Proof Event: 14 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA
Customer: RPC Group Plc Project Title: Annual Report & Accounts 2010 T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
RPC Cobelplast, a partner of baby food
specialist BLEDINA (now BLEDINA-
NUMICO) since the launch of its
BLEDICHEF range more than 10 years ago,
has underlined its excellent working
relationship by supplying high ba rrier film
for the latest packaging format from the
major global brand.
German food manufacturer Ernst Nowka
GmbH & Co. KG has made a major change
from its traditional glass jars for the
catering market, to a modern, highly
functional plastic container manufactured
at RPC Kutenholz.
3984 RPC Annual Report pp01-41:3984 RPC Annual Report pp01-41  16/6/10  14:29  Page 4  The past year has seen the Group  
deliver production growth, broaden its 
operations and further consolidate its 
position as a prominent Asian oil and gas
exploration and production company. Salamander  
has a highly distinctive blend of operating expertise, 
commercial skills and regional focus, which together 
with well developed relationships with government 
organisations, national oil companies and partners 
across the Asian region, will continue to provide  
the platform for further value creation.
We continue to see Asia as having a highly dynamic 
and resilient macro-economic environment. This is 
reflected in b oth the attractive regional growth rates 
and the buoyant energy markets – in particular the 
increasing demand for indigenous gas, as evidenced 
by rising domestic gas prices in our key markets of 
Thailand and Indonesia. Having traded in an unusually 
stable range for most of 2010, oil prices broke out  
of this range towards the end of the year and have 
increased rapidly during the first quarter of 2011  
due in part to political uncertainty in the Middle  
East and North Africa.  
 
Financial results
Increased production and higher commodity  
prices were reflected in the Group’s financial results 
with revenue increasing by 106% to $323.4 million  
(2009: $157.1 million) and operating cash flow before 
working capital adjustments growing by 108%  
to $174.4 million. The Group reports a loss before  
tax of $113.7 million (2009: $3.0 million), after net 
impairment charges of $48.6 million and exploration 
expenses of $95.9 million. Before charging these 
non-cash items, the G roup’s profit before tax was 
$30.8 million (2009: 8.4 million).
Average realisations of $73.16 per bbl (2009: $51.37) 
and $5.12 per Mscf (2009: $4.03) were achieved 
during the year. 
2 Overview
 Salamander Energy PLC 
Annual Report 2010
Chairman’s and 
Chief Executive’s review
Asset development
Within the Group’s broad portfolio, we have been 
focussing on developing our position within selected 
regional plays where we have large, material operated 
positions, with discovered resources or current 
production that offer both further upside and room  
to grow. We see competitive advantage for the 
Group in these areas due to our acreage position  
and technical knowledge.
During the period we consolidated our position in  
the Gulf of Thailand, through the acquisition of the 
40% minority interest in the B8/38 production licence 
containing the Bualuang oil field, providing further 
production and greater exposure to exploration 
upside. Recently we have seen the reserves inc rease 
in the Bualuang field and the contract award for the 
Bravo platform which are key steps in order to further 
exploit the field and deliver future production growth.
The Group deepened its position in East Kalimantan, 
Indonesia, through the acquisition of our minority 
non-operating partner in the Bontang PSC, taking  
our interest to 100% in that PSC, and through the 
acquisition of a 69% operated interest in the 
Bangkanai PSC, containing the Kerendan gas field. 
During December we announced an oil and gas 
discovery in the Bontang PSC with the Angklung-1 
exploration well. We believe this to be an important 
discovery, proving up a gas play with a high quality 
reservoir and significant resource potential located 
some 60 km from the Bontang LNG plant, which  
is currently short of gas supply. We were also 
encouraged to discover an Upper Miocene oil play 
which offers a substantial additional prize above  
and beyond the gas potential.
Finally, in the Khorat basin, onshore  north east 
Thailand we have seen encouragement in the  
Dao Ruang-2 well, which has encountered fractures 
and seen gas while drilling. We have now started 
testing operations on this well and will announce  
the results in due course. This well was located  
and planned on the basis of our high resolution 3D 
seismic dataset, which has been instrumental in 
understanding the sub-surface architecture and in 
locating the productive fracture networks in these  
gas accumulations. The Group holds a leading 
acreage position in the onshore Khorat basin and,  
in the event of a commercial flow rate from Dao 
Ruang-2, has a number of follow up opportunities  
on which to utilise its knowledge and experience  
of the play. James Menzies 
Chief Executive Officer
23 March 2011
Charles Jamieson 
Chairman
23 March 2011
3 Overview
 Salamander Energy PLC 
Annual Report 2010
Operational performance
The first half of 2010 saw some disappointments  
as the Group drilled high risk, frontier wells in   
Lao PDR and Vietnam and experienced a reserve 
downgrade on the Kambuna field. Operational 
performance improved in the second half with  
a minor discovery recorded in the Southern Kutei 
basin and a clear exploration success delivered  
with the Angklung discovery. The Company has 
started 2011 in positive fashion, delivering reserves 
upgrades on the Bualuang field.
On the production front we are pleased to report 
2010 daily average production of 20,300 boepd,  
up 49% from the 2009 average production rate. 
2010 saw all production assets perform well with  
the exception of Kambuna field, which was shut  
in for a period during the first half of the year due  
to downstream pipeline maintenance.  
 
People
Our people are central to delivering the successful 
results we are starting to see from the business, and 
on behalf of the Board we would like to thank them 
for their efforts. We have strengthened the senior 
management team this year with a number of high 
quality addition s and have built one of the leading 
and most capable teams in the region. 
The whole team shares management’s commitment 
to excellence in all matters related to health and 
safety. HSE practices in the industry have come 
under increased scrutiny in 2010 and more detail on 
Group performance can be found in the Corporate 
Responsibility section of this report. Whilst it was 
disappointing that the Group recorded its first lost 
time incident during 2010, the overall safety record 
is excellent and the Board and employees are 
committed to maintaining this.  
 
Outlook
We forecast average daily production for 2011 will  
be between 22,000 and 23,000 boepd. We are taking 
a conservative approach to managing the balance 
sheet and plan to deliver the current year’s capital 
programme below forecast post tax cash generation. 
As part of that work programme, the Group continues 
to pursue an extensive exploration and appraisal 
programme with a lower risk profile relative to 2010. 
We  believe the Group will demonstrate its ability  
to create further value through focussing on selected 
regional plays offshore and onshore Thailand and in 
East Kalimantan. Additionally, exposure to targeted 
exploration plays, in particular our position in offshore 
northern Vietnam, offers major upside potential.
Importantly, we see the potential to reach  
30,000 boepd by 2013 from our current asset base,  
a 50% increase from current levels. We expect this 
production growth to lead to substantial revenue  
and cash flow growth in the same period.
While we have had a strong start to the year,  
the Board believes the Company is only just 
beginning to reveal the enormous potential we  
see in our people, our assets, and in the wider 
operating platform we have developed in the  
heart of one of the most vibrant and dynamic 
economic regions in the world today. 02 Sareum Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.sareum.co.uk
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s statement
B ackground
The key value creator for Sareum’s shareholders continues to 
be the development and commercialisation of drug candidates from 
the Company’s in-house drug development pipeline. Our research 
spend this year has been targeted on advancing our Sareum Kinase 
Inhibitor Library (SKIL) programmes. The research emphasis on 
Chk1 has focused on studies in models designed to build the 
portfolio of data provided to potential licencees.
Our plan has been to help deliver successful in-vivo efficacy 
studies through our collaboration with the Institute of Cancer Research 
and Cancer Research Technology Limited. We have also used third 
party providers of models to provide corresponding data for our 
other programmes. 
Additionally, in the period under review, three patent applications 
relating to Sareum programmes were published and a further patent 
application has been filed post period-end. These patents protect 
families of promising compounds arising from Sareum’s research  
programmes, and demonstrate the strength of our intellectual 
property to prospective customers. 
The Company’s business model is to concentrate primarily on its 
in-house cancer drug discovery research by outsourcing the chemistry 
and biology components of each programme. Our in-house expertise 
and experience is used to interpret the relationship between chemical 
structure and biological activity associated with each of the new 
compounds tested. The information from each study is used to assist 
in the design of new molecules which should show more activity 
and less toxicity. The synthesis and testing of new compounds is 
undertaken in a worldwide network of third-party laboratories.
A  Sareum is actively developing five drug 
discovery programmes at the present time
A  In May 2010, Sareum launched its SKIL® 
technology platform
A  In April 2010, Dr Bob Jackson was 
appointed to the Scientific Advisory Board
A  The cash position at the period end was 
£0.52 million (2009: £ 0.27 million)
Summary of Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s statement
   The Company will continue to build value from its in-house research and 
development by seeking to advance its cancer drug discovery programmes
As the development programmes progress, additional data is generated 
demonstrating the quality of the candidate molecules. Simultaneously, 
an active campaign continues to draw these results to the attention of 
companies seeking to licence programmes such as these. In particular, 
the results of our research are presented at important conferences and 
seminars that focus on cancer and cancer drugs. This serves to provide 
an excellent shop window for our research as well as an opportunity 
to engage with decision makers from the major pharmaceutical 
companies that are seeking to in-licence new cancer drugs.
Progress with drug discovery programmes
The Company’s principal asset is the intellectual property derived 
from its cancer drug discovery programmes. Sareum is  actively 
developing five drug discovery programmes at the present time. 
The Company has continued to make positive progress with these 
programmes, resulting in the publication of three patents from 
historic filings.
Sareum’s pipeline is built on the expertise of its founders in pre-clinical 
drug discovery, particularly in the field of cancer. Sareum concentrates 
its research on targeted small molecule therapeutics. 
Our strategy is to focus on developing best in class cancer therapies, 
where pre-clinical and early clinical data is available to indicate that 
disrupting the targeted biochemical process will indeed prevent tumour 
growth and prolong survival, without significant side-effects. We can 
capitalise on these published results to direct our own programmes 
and to indicate, for instance, whether or not the therapy needs to 
be administered in combination with additional cancer therapies. 
In May 2010, Sareum launched its SKIL® technology platform. 
SKIL includes a pat ent-protected molecular core and the intellectual 
know-how to fine-tune these molecules into inhibitors of a wide range 
of kinase enzymes. Aberrant kinase activity is associated with many 
cancer types, as well as other diseases including certain types of 
auto-immune disease and diabetes. This kinase class of enzymes 
constitutes Sareum’s ongoing research efforts, primarily targeting 
kinases associated with cancer.
SKIL programme targets include Aurora kinase, VEGFR-3 kinase 
and FLT3 kinase. Recently, interesting activity has been found against 
ALK and TYK2 kinases. ALK kinase overactivity is associated with 
certain types of lung cancer and Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma 
(ALCL), a cancer of the lymphatic cells of the immune system. 
Inhibition of TYK2 kinase activity can be used to control immune 
disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis and Crohn’s disease. 03 Sareum Holdings plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.sareum.co.uk 
Sareum’s expertise was boosted i n April 2010 by the appointment 
of Dr Bob Jackson to the Scientific Advisory Board. Dr Jackson was 
formerly chief scientific officer at the cancer drug discovery company, 
Cyclacel. During his distinguished career he has led teams that have 
brought many compounds to clinical trials, including the Aurora 
kinase inhibitor, CYC116. This appointment comes at an important 
stage in the development of Sareum’s Aurora kinase programme 
and Dr Jackson’s expertise will be key to the development of 
the programme. 
Chk1 kinase
This is Sareum’s most advanced programme and is carried out 
in conjunction with one of the world’s leading cancer research 
organisations, The Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) and Cancer 
Research Technology Limited. Chk1 kinase inhibitors enhance the 
effects of DNA-damaging chemotherapeutics such as Campto® 
(irinotecan) and Gemzar® (gemcitabine). During the period, Chk1 
kinase inhibitors with the potential to be delivered via the oral route 
(as oppose d to injection) have been developed. This gives our 
programme advantages over competitor compounds that are in 
early clinical trials. 
In January 2010, scientists from Sareum and the ICR published 
key data in the peer reviewed journal Molecular Cancer Therapeutics. 
The article describes how the programme compound SAR-020106 
significantly enhances the anti-tumour effects of the cancer 
chemotherapeutics Campto® (irintotecan) and Gemzar® 
(gemcitabine) in preclinical disease models. 
The time interval between the administration of the doses of 
DNA-damaging agent and Chk1 kinase inhibitor is an important 
factor. To better understand this, in March 2010 we entered into 
a collaboration with Physiomics plc to perform computer simulations 
of the effects of different scheduling of such drugs in living systems. 
The results obtained from this collaboration have provided valuable 
insights into the importance of appropriate scheduling of 
combination therapies.
Aurora kinase
During th e period, we have been concentrating our efforts on 
developing Aurora kinase inhibitors to treat AML, a type of leukaemia. 
This is partly in response to the clinical results from competitors’ 
Aurora programmes, which have shown positive responses in AML 
patients, and partly as a result of our Aurora compounds also displaying 
potent FLT3 kinase activity. FLT3 kinase is overly active in many AML 
variants and Sareum’s Aurora/FLT3 inhibitors are potent against AML 
cell lines. Initial results in in-vivo studies are also positive. We are now 
seeking to optimise the properties of these compounds to allow delivery 
via the oral route whilst maintaining or improving upon the existing 
efficacy and safety profile.
VEGFR-3 (FLT4) kinase
VEGFR-3 kinase, also known as FLT4 kinase, is believed to be 
important in the formation of lymph and blood vessels in a growing 
tumour. These vessels provide nutrients, eliminate waste and provide 
a route for metastasis (cancer spread). Sareum compo unds have been 
shown to inhibit the growth of lymph endothelial cells by selectively 
inhibiting VEGFR-3. 
Other SKIL programmes (ALK, TYK2)
We continually screen our SKIL compounds, e.g. from our Aurora and 
VEGFR-3 programmes, against a selection of kinase enzymes, looking 
for interesting activity against other therapeutically relevant kinases. 
Recently, we have discovered SKIL compounds with interesting activity 
against ALK kinase (implicated in certain lymphomas and lung 
cancers) and TYK2 kinase (implicated in certain auto-immune 
diseases). Currently, we are developing joint Aurora/ALK kinase 
inhibitors and approaching potential commercial partners, with 
expertise in auto-immune disease, with our TYK2 inhibitors.
Earlier-stage programmes (FLT3, FASN, PLK1, B-raf)
These programmes are currently on hold, pending a collaborative 
research deal with a pharmaceutical company partner or receipt of a 
research grant. FLT3, in addition to being a potential target for certain 
leuka emias, also has the potential to treat auto-immune diseases such 
as multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis, which further expands 
the commercial opportunities for this programme. 
Financial review
During the period, the loss after taxation decreased to 
£0.57 million (2009: £1.1 million). The cash position at the 
period end was £0.52 million (2009: £0.27 million), enhanced 
by the share placings, announced in September and October 2009 
that raised £815,000 before expenses. The Company’s cash position 
was further improved by a share placing to raise £200,000 (before 
expenses) in August 2010. As a result of these placings, the Directors 
believe the Company is able to maintain its R&D spend to further 
advance its cancer drug pipeline whilst also providing sufficient 
working capital for the foreseeable future.
Outlook
The Company has an exciting opportunity to focus solely on its 
in-house cancer drug discovery programmes to generate shareholder 
value. The research w ork for the ongoing programmes is being provided 
via third parties, enabling the Company to operate with a minimal fixed 
cost base. 
The Company will continue to build value from its in-house research 
and development by seeking to advance its cancer drug discovery 
programmes. With sufficient cash resources to fund the ongoing 
business plan for the foreseeable future, the Company looks forward 
to further development and commercialisation of these cancer 
drug programmes. 
Dr Paul Harper
Chairman
Dr Tim Mitchell
Chief Executive Officer
21 October 2010 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
5 | William Sinclair Holdings plc William Sinclair Holdings plc | 6
The Group made excellent progress in the year ended 30 September 2010. Group 
profitability grew substantially and we consolidated our position as one of the leading 
companies within the horticulture market. The prospects for the coming year are very 
encouraging.
The 2010 selling season
Across the horticulture industry, consumer demand  during the traditionally busy 
spring period was satisfactory and, due to a number of key strategic decisions, William 
Sinclair performed particularly strongly.
Following the introduction of new harvesting techniques in 2010, William Sinclair 
achieved high stock levels that enabled us to meet all customer demand this year. Our 
sales also benefited from reduced competition in the retail market, with many smaller 
competitors facing shortages of raw materials. 
With our ongoing investment programme, William Sinclair is now firmly regarded as 
being the market leader in peat free products. This was reflected by a particularly strong 
performance by our peat free New Horizon compost as sales grew during the year by 
39% (compared with growth of 23% for the peat free market in general) and the product 
was once again awarded “Best Buy” status by “Which” magazine. 
Our excellent delivery service made William Sinclair the “go to” supplier as customers 
switched purchasing to us  during the peak season. Our market research shows that, 
within the growing media retail sector, William Sinclair gained market share from both 
its main rivals.
Freeland, our subsidiary with a core business supplying specialist soils to large 
civil engineering projects, had another strong performance and secured a number of 
additional contracts relating to the 2012 Olympics, which offset a contraction within 
the construction industry. 
In addition, Freeland established a number of manufacturing sites outside the home 
counties, meaning the business is now strategically placed to become a nationwide 
supplier of specialist soil materials.
Bolton Fell
In April we announced the signing of an agreement with Natural England committing 
the Group to a cessation of peat harvesting at the Bolton Fell site by November 2013. 
That process has already begun and an area of the bog that we had intended to harvest 
was handed over to Natural England immediately. 
As part of the agreement, a £9  million pre-payment was received by the Group in April 
2010. This payment has not had a direct impact on our income statement but is shown 
as a non current item on our statement of financial position. Our cash position has 
significantly improved as a consequence. 
In keeping with the agreement, a claim was submitted to Natural England in October 
2010. The value of the claim calculated by independent specialist advisors is 
substantially greater than the pre-payment received. The directors believe that the 
eventual settlement, which could take two years to reach, is likely to generate a further 
substantial payment for William Sinclair.
Environmental performance
During June 2010 Freeland made a technological breakthrough and launched a 
synthetic peat substitute called “SuperFyba”. Made from recycled material, SuperFyba 
has taken four years to develop and has required a £1.5 million investment program. 
The material has many attractive attributes: it is lightweight, has low  electrolyte levels, 
is sterile and affordable. Its physical properties are closer to peat than any other high 
volume alternative currently available and this industry first has been well received by 
both customers and environmentalists. Over 100 customers are conducting trials with 
the material and it is evident that demand will exceed supply for some time. We plan 
to bring a second production unit on line in the current financial year.
The 2010 harvest 
The peat harvest fell short of Group expectations, although markedly above that 
achieved in either of the two preceding years.
As another example of our ongoing investment program, William Sinclair has 
developed and commissioned equipment for the drying of peat. A significant volume 
of peat was produced in the year using this new technology. 
We believe that the combination of this technology and the development of “SuperFyba” 
(neither process is affected by adverse weather), should ensure that the Group will no 
longer be  forced to buy scarce peat during poor harvest years in the foreseeable future.
Bank facilities and pension scheme
Our relationship with the Group’s bank Lloyds Banking Group remains excellent and 
they have continued to be supportive throughout the year. The receipt of the pre-
payment from Natural England as compensation for Bolton Fell will allow the Group 
to reduce its loan facility, subject to acquisitions and the progress of our search for a 
“super site” as we outgrow our current facilities at Lincoln. Our search for a suitable 
location is ongoing.
The Group’s pension deficit has increased by £140,000 over the year due to changes 
in the actuarial assumptions used, the investment returns achieved and the movement 
in bond rates. The increase is after a repayment contribution of £600,000 which was 
made in the year in line with the ten year deficit reduction plan agreed with the scheme 
trustees and the Pension Regulator. Both the pension trustees and the Sinclair dir ectors 
are confident that the plan will address the pension deficit without disrupting the 
Group’s accelerated growth strategy.
Acquisitions and distribution agreements
The Group announced in November 2010 the acquisition of the assets and trade of 
Growing Success Organics (GSO) and, in early December, an aggregate business. The 
total cost of the two acquisitions was £1.1 million. The acquired businesses should 
contribute approximately £5 million of turnover in a full year. The integration of 
these businesses is progressing well with minimal disruption and sales of GSO via 
our substantial sales network are already increasing. We expect these businesses to 
be modestly earnings enhancing during the current financial year with a fuller benefit 
being achieved in the following year. 
Outlook
The performance of the Group has been strong and evidence suggests that the 
horticulture industry, despite the public sector spending cuts, is recession resistant.
Growing media is relativ ely inexpensive and our customers’ profile is largely over 
45 years old - many already drawing index linked pensions. Hobby gardening is 
increasingly a popular and less expensive alternative to foreign holidays. 
With our strong balance sheet and growing market share the Group is again 
demonstrating its ability to benefit during the recession whilst being well placed 
to increase market share in our target markets. The combination of our peat drying 
technology to protect the Group from adverse weather, the development of SuperFyba 
and a number of operational improvements within the business confirms that William 
Sinclair is on track to become the leading supplier of horticultural products in the UK. 
The Board expects the Group to continue to grow and to perform strongly.
Bernard Burns
Chief Executive
4 January 2011 GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
7 | William Sinclair Holdings plc
GROUP OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
William Sinclair Holdings plc | 8
Basis of preparation
T hese financial statements are being reported under International Financial 
Reporting Standards. 
Nature, objectives and strategies
The Group’s businesses
The Group’s operations are organised to supply markets in the horticulture sector, 
and are principally involved in the manufacture and supply of horticultural 
consumables through retail and professional channels and our strategy going 
forward continues this focus.
A review of the market is given in the Chief Executive’s statement on pages 4 to 5.
Environmental matters
The Group recognises that its products and operations have an effect on  
the environment in a number of ways. The Group is committed to continually 
striving to reduce any negative environmental impact. In conducting its business 
the Group will:
• Meet or exceed all relevant environmental legal requirements. 
• Reduce the level of carbon emissions associated with our growing media. In 
2003 we emitted around 8.7 kg CO
2
 per m
3
 of growing media produced . This 
was reduced to 7.5 kg per m
3
 in 2005. We believe we have met our target of a 
figure below 7.0 kg per m
3
 in 2010 by increasing the average volume of growing 
media delivered on each vehicle and by reviewing vehicle usage patterns to 
reduce empty vehicle miles. We estimate that we are currently well in front of 
all our major competitors in this area.
• Actively promote peat alternatives wherever appropriate to market conditions. 
In the period under review we increased the volume of peat substitutes we used 
by just over 350,000 m
3
 compared to last year’s 200,000 m
3
. Over 50% of this 
came from recycled material.
• Regenerate worked out peat fields in accordance with requirements identified in 
our planning consents. In many areas this will involve regeneration as wetland. 
Our current performance is to achieve 75%. 
• Re-establish 75% mire bio-diversity within 10 years of cessation of peat 
extraction.
• Protect peatland areas of high conservation value whic h adjoin, or are adjacent 
to, our worked peat fields in a proactive way. 
• Continue only to harvest peat from areas of low current conservation value and 
harvest peat in accordance with the International Peat Society and International 
Mire Conservation Group, Wise Use Guidelines (2002).
• Reduce, reuse or recycle wastes where economically possible, and ensure wastes 
are disposed of in accordance with best practice. 
• Seek to minimise the packaging associated with our products. Since 2003 the 
weight of plastic packaging we have used per m
3
 of growing media has been 
reduced by around 20%. 
Business objectives
Meeting the following business objectives is key to achieving the financial and 
non-financial measures that increase shareholder value. 
• Maximising shareholder return
• Maximising customer satisfaction
• Improving operational efficiency
• Securing employee health and safety
Business strategies
The Group’s strategy is to optimise manufacturing efficiency  through investment 
in modern equipment and minimising distribution mileage. This may involve the 
moving of certain sites, together with some rationalisation. 
Organic sales growth will arise as customers migrate from competitors in 
recognition of our market leading service, quality and value for money.
In addition to organic growth in sales we will continue to consider acquisitions 
where appropriate to achieve full utilisation of our manufacturing efficiency.
Current and future development and performance
Business development and performance
The following discussion of the Group’s performance is conducted wholly in 
the context of financial performance as measured under International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). 
Group revenue
 2010 2009
 £000 £000
 
Total Group revenue 48,456 46,275
The Group’s reported turnover from continuing operations has increased by 
approximately £2.2 million or 4.7%. This is in line with our expectations as we 
grow market share.
Pro fit before tax
 2010 2009 
 £000 £000
Pre-tax profit before exceptional items 2,523 1,240
Exceptional items (460) –
 2,063 1,240
The twelve months under review have been a turbulent time for the economy. 
As expected, however, gardening has proved a resilient sector. Well funded 
businesses have been in a strong position at a time when bank support has been 
uncertain for others. The Group has made good progress on sales and has been able 
to reduce costs. As a consequence margins and operating profits have improved.  3 
Chairman and CEO’s Statement (continued) 
$5.7 million in gross cash flow to Amphion through the end of 2010.  The recovery seen in the second 
half has continued in the first few months of the current year and an additional seven settlements 
have been concluded so far in 2011.   
 
Amphion’s wholly owned subsidiary, DataTern Inc., which owns the ObjectSpark patent is subject to 
lawsuits which have been brought by Microsoft Corporation, SAP AG and SAP America , Inc. in April 
2011.  The lawsuits claim that the ObjectSpark patents (U.S. Patents 5,937,402 and 6,101,502) are 
invalid and the MicroSoft and SAP technologies do not infringe on the patents.  Amphion will strongly 
refute these claims by Microsoft and SAP and continue to enforce these patents against other 
infringers.  These patents are entitled to a presumption of validity and the 6,102,502 patent 
successfully completed a re-examination procedure in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in 2009.  
All 18 claims of this patent were reaffirmed and 26 new claims were added.  While it is possible that 
these lawsuits may have a negative impact on generating revenue from the ObjectSpark patents, we 
believe that we have the resources to vigorously defend these lawsuits and that we have developed 
strategies which will allow us to continue to successfully generate revenue from the ObjectSpark 
patents. 
 
Our confidence in the fundamental strength of the ObjectSpark technology and IP r emains strong and 
our capabilities in this area continue to improve.  We continue to look for new ways to extract 
additional value from the ObjectSpark technology assets and to apply our knowledge and resources 
to other similar programmes that emanate either from our Partner Companies or elsewhere.  Thus we 
continue to believe that we have established a solid second leg to our business, which we expect to 
continue to grow and have a positive impact on our primary business.  Until June of 2008, we were 
investing in these capabilities and most of the costs associated with establishing this business have 
been expensed as incurred.  Like much of the IP underlying our Partner Companies, we believe the 
ObjectSpark patents are fundamental and important and that many companies managing complex 
data in an IT setting should require a license to use the technology to continue to “practice the art”.  
We believe that there remain a large number of additional potential licensees and th at we should be 
able to generate a significant amount of additional revenue from this asset over the next few years.  In 
due course, once Amphion has recovered its sunk costs, we will start sharing this revenue stream 
with FireStar Software, Inc. (where the technology and patents were originally developed), so FireStar 
should then benefit directly as well.   
 
Extracting Value for Shareholders 
Since flotation, our basic business model was to start and build high potential companies based on 
innovative and proprietary, but basically proven, technology.  Each one of our companies was 
carefully selected to address established markets in excess of US $1 billion and to have target exit 
values in excess of US $100 million.  Our ability to select good IP and to develop the IP portfolios in 
each of our Partner Companies is a critical success factor and is getting steadily stronger as we 
deepen our knowledge and experience in this area.  This underpins Amphion’s investment in each  
Partner Company at the outset and as it develops.  Fortunately the development of the IP licensing 
programme and its overall success, despite the difficulties in the first half of 2010, has provided us 
with sufficient resources to survive the last three difficult years. However, the broader capital shortage 
brought about by the continuing financial crisis has led us to conduct a thorough re-examination of the 
viability of our model in current circumstances.   
 
We cannot predict with any certainty whether, and if so how and when, the capital markets for 
emerging growth technology companies will revive.  For the last two years we have been operating in 
a defensive mode, with an intense focus on cutting costs and concentrating on securing the long term 
future of the Group.  Even as conditions start to improve we believe it is appropriate that we maintain 
this focus on survival and potential revival from our current activities and assets and work to extract 
value from our asset  base. 
 
Kromek continues to be the company which has enjoyed some success in raising capital and it 
continues to make good progress.  We are actively working on programmes to reposition each one of 
our Partner Companies to improve its access to capital or to execute on a modified business plan 
requiring fewer resources.  In the case of Motif, we have radically changed the business focus to one 
based on a proven model of drug discovery and we believe we remain on track to raise the capital    4 
Chairman and CEO’s Statement (continued) 
needed to execute on this new business plan.  FireStar is another good case study in this regard.  
Despite severe financial challenges, the company managed to get its key products and technology 
adopted as standard by the Object Management Group and managed to be included in a consortium 
that is developing important connectivity and interoperability products for the US government.  The 
key technology assets remain intact and FireStar has just  been informed that its patent application 
covering some of its critical messaging technologies has been granted by the US Patent Office.  With 
some additional capital provided by Amphion, FireStar is now starting to attract additional capital from 
other investors to supplement the cash flow expected from its contract awards.  While the last three 
years have been incredibly hard on the company and its leadership team, the opportunity remains 
very much alive and the size of the potential return is significant.  
 
 
Prospects for 2011 and Beyond 
We continue to expect our IP licensing programme to be a key source of financial support for the 
Company in the current year and beyond.  Until we can take one of our Partner Companies to the 
public market through an Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) or through an exit via a trade sale, we have to 
rely on internally generated capital, supplemented where possible by outside capital if we can raise it 
on terms that make sense to our sh areholders.   In this regard in June 2011, the Company’s 
Chairman, R. James Macaleer, agreed to advance the Company up to an additional US $2,000,000 
evidenced by a promissory note.  Proceeds from this financing will be to support the Company’s 
activities in general and the IP licensing programme in particular and the cost to the Company of this 
financing will be partly based on the success of the IP programme over the next eighteen months. 
 
For our business model to work we need access to an adequate supply of capital, whether from 
internally generated sources or from the outside.  Capital for early stage emerging technology 
companies remained very scarce throughout 2010, as it was in 2009.  For the broader economic 
recovery to make a positive impact on Amphion, we also need to see the return of a viable IPO 
market as this tends to dictate conditions in the private capital market for tech and medtech 
companies.   
 
We remain cautious and believe that conditions will im prove slowly, if at all, during 2011.  
Nevertheless, we believe there is significant inherent value to be developed and extracted from 
DataTern and our Partner Companies.  Our focus now is on value extraction from our IP programme 
and from each of our Partner Companies and we have a clear set of goals to return value to our 
shareholders.   
 
 
 
 
R. James Macaleer 
Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
Richard C.E. Morgan 
Chief Executive Officer 
   5 
Partner Company Summaries 
 
Below we provide a summary of developments made with each of our Partner Companies 
during 2010. (Note 15 provides further details). 
 
Axcess International, Inc. launched its new Dot MicroWireless ID Platform at the 
International Security Conference in March in the partner booths of HID and Tyco/ADT.  
Axcess initiated its own IP monetisation programme and also launched its next generation 
Dot Wireless Credential, based on new processor and radio components which now 
comprise a robust platform for expanded tracking  capabilities in local area tracking and 
sensing.  Revenue for the year declined from the level of the previous year due in part to the 
company’s need to reduce costs and cut back on sales and marketing activities.   
 
 
FireStar Software, Inc.’s strategic partnership bore fruit when Southeast Michigan Health 
Information Exchange (SEMHIE) was successful in receiving a Beacon Community Grant 
from the US Department of Health and Human Services for US $16 million.  The grants were 
awarded to a select few who proposed innovative healthcare technology and FireStar will be 
a critical component of the total solution.  In addition SEMHIE received a US $3 million 
contract to implement a pilot project for automating the Social Security Administration 
disability claims processing for Southeast Michigan.  FireStar is actively working on both 
projects.  FireStar recently received notice from the US Patent Office that the first of the 
Company’s patent applications covering the EdgeNo de messaging technology has been 
issued.   
 
 
Kromek successfully consolidated NOVA, a California-based chip company it acquired in 
2010, and obtained EU certification and made initial commercial sales of its bottle scanner 
product for liquid explosives in aviation security. The company has continued to achieve key 
milestones in its contract with the US Department of Defense and has made progress on two 
medical applications with a large OEM and an emerging medical diagnostics company.  In 
early 2010, Kromek closed a further round of financing of over £7 million.   
 
m2m Imaging Corp. managed to grow the business top line by 8.5% and improve total 
operating performance by 16%.  The company has just received notice from the US Patent 
Office that its fourth patent on key technologies protecting the next generation of coils has 
been allowed and will soon be issued.  The company introduced a wide range of new 
products during the year in both the preclinical MR and PET/CT marke ts.   
 
 
Motif BioSciences, Inc. moved forward with its transition to a new business model with a 
focus on a novel approach to drug discovery.  The company has assembled an experienced 
scientific and technical team with a track record of successful drug development in the 
pharmaceutical industry.  Motif has reached an agreement in principle with a provider of drug 
discovery services to support the company’s lead hopping programme on a deeply 
discounted and risk-shared basis.  The provider has a global perspective and reputation and 
will work collaboratively with the scientific leadership at Motif to drive the programmes 
forward rapidly, with first milestones expected to be met within two years.   
 
 
 
  Antisoma plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
02
Overview
We have had a challenging year, including a disappointment in March, 
when a phase III trial evaluating ASA404 as a first-line treatment for 
lung cancer was discontinued for futility. We recognise that ASA404 
was c onsidered the Company’s most significant asset, but we are 
fortunate in having another late-stage cancer drug, AS1413, with 
substantial market potential. Addressing an indication in acute 
leukaemia where there is high unmet need, poor satisfaction with 
currently available generic therapies and clear potential for post-launch 
growth, AS1413 could readily achieve peak sales comparable in scale 
to the royalties that we might have obtained through our alliance on 
ASA404. We expect data from the phase III pivotal study of this 
compound in the first half of 2011. 
AS1413 phase III trial nears recruitment target
AS1413 is a novel chemotherapy that we are testing in a large 
randomised phase III trial in patients with secondary acute myeloid 
leukaemia (‘secondary AML ’). The trial, known as ACCEDE, is 
approaching its enrolment target, which is to screen 450 patients  
in order to provide 420 evaluable patients. Enrolment should be 
completed in Q3 2010 and we expect to announce  results in the first 
half of 2011. 
During the year, we have presented new findings supporting AS1413  
at major scientific and medical meetings. In December, we reported 
positive final data from a phase II trial of AS1413 in secondary AML at 
the American Society of Hematology (‘ASH’) Annual Meeting. We saw 
an encouraging number of longer-term responders, with 30% of 
patients who achieved remission after treatment with AS1413 still alive 
after two years. A presentation at the American Association of Cancer 
Research (‘AACR’) Annual Meeting in April reinforced the differentiation 
of AS1413 from currently available leukaemia treatments and its 
potential to provide unique benefits for patients. Presentations at the 
American Society of Clinical Oncology (‘ASCO’) Annual Meeting and  
the European Hematology Association (‘EHA’) Annual Meeting in June 
highlighted the importance of multi-drug resistance as a barrier to 
successful treatment of AML. A key feature of A S1413 is its ability  
to evade multi-drug resistance mechanisms. 
In June we announced that the US Food and Drug Administration 
(‘FDA’) had granted Fast Track designation to AS1413 for the treatment 
of secondary AML. Fast Track-designated drugs usually qualify for 
Priority Review, an expedited review process available to drugs that 
offer major advances in treatment or provide a treatment where no 
adequate therapy exists.
There is interest from potential partners in licensing AS1413. We have 
decided to take a pragmatic stance to realising the value of the drug, 
and have therefore widened our partnering discussions to include US 
rights, which we had previously planned to retain. However, as we 
have the resources ourselves to complete development of AS1413, we 
will only strike a deal ahead of the phase III data if terms are sufficiently 
favourable. 
We believe that AS1413 could ultimately find application in a number  
of blood cancer settings, with potential sales running  to hundreds 
of millions of dollars annually. 
Joint Chief Executive’s and 
Chairman’s statement
Barry Price
Chairman
Glyn Edwards
Chief Executive Officer Antisoma plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
03
AS1411 phase IIb trial ongoing
AS1411 is the most advanced aptamer in trials for cancer. In March  
we initiated a 90-patient phase IIb study in patients with AML. This trial 
follows an earlier 60-patient randomised phase II trial in AML, in which 
use of AS1411 in combination with cytarabine produced a higher 
remission rate than cytarabine alone, without imposing any significant 
additional side-effects. At this year’s ASCO meeting, we presented 
long-term follow up data from the earlier study, showing that five of  
the eight patients who responded to an AS1411-based regimen, all of 
whom had advanced disease on entry to the study, had substantial 
survival durations (from 12 to over 20 months). Headline data from  
the phase IIb study are expected in the first half of 2011.  
We continue to accumulate evidence that AS1411 has potential in a 
variety of different cancers. Non-clinical data presented at AACR in 
April showed activity in a model of colorectal cancer and positive 
findings when AS1411 was combined with various approved 
treatments for blood cancers. At the ASCO meeting in June we 
presented data from a 35-patient phase II study of AS1411 in 
advanced renal cancer, which provided further evidence of activity  
in this setting. 
In October we announced that AS1411 had been granted orphan drug 
status in the US and the European Union for the treatment of AML. 
These grants will provide seven years of market exclusivity in the US 
and 10 years of exclusivity in the European Union if AS1411 is approved 
as a treatment for AML.
DCAM auto-immune programme progressing  
towards partnering 
We have an important preclinical programme in auto-immune 
diseases. This comprises a series of molecules collectively known  
as DCAMs (dendritic cell auto-immune  modulators). They are highly 
specific, small-molecule inhibitors of wild-type Flt3, and are designed 
for oral treatment of various auto-immune conditions. Positive results 
have already been achieved in animal models of inflammatory bowel 
disease and rheumatoid arthritis, and we are now working towards 
establishing a licensing partnership for further development of  
the programme. 
Other pipeline developments
During the period, we discontinued development of a phase II product, 
AS1402, divested a phase I product, P2045, to Bryan Oncor, and put 
on hold further development of AS1409. We have also discontinued  
a number of preclinical programmes as we focus our resources on 
development of our late-stage products, AS1413 and AS1411.
Cash conservation measures enacted
We are no longer anticipating further revenues from the ASA404 
programme, and have therefore taken steps to reduce our cash 
utilisation and ensure that our funds take us comfortably past key 
clinical data on AS141 3 and AS1411, which are expected during the 
first half of 2011. We finished the period with cash and short-term 
deposits of £32.1 million (2009: £67 .0 million). 
Total revenues for the year ended 30 June 2010 were £20.3 million, 
compared with £25.2 million last year. This year’s revenues reflect half 
of the $60.0 million up-front payment from sanofi-aventis (£19.7 million) 
for oral fludarabine, which was deferred from the previous financial 
year, and the first of five annual contingent payments due under 
the agreement.
 
“ We have two promising cancer 
drugs, AS1413 and AS1411, both 
of which we expect to report 
key trial data by mid-2011.”
Glyn Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
Total operating expenses have increased from £40.8 million  
last year to £43.4 million this year, mainly reflecting an increase  
in general and administrative costs, which were £7.9 million  
(2009: £4.9 million), reflecting impairments made to intangible  
assets and lower foreign excha nge gains during the year.  
Research and development (‘R&D’) costs were £35.5 million  
(2009: £35.9 million).
We have recorded a full-year loss of £18.7 million (2009: £16.4 million). 
At this stage in our development, profits and losses reflect the  
balance between recognition of deferred revenues and our ongoing 
operating expenses. 
Board and management changes
Regrettably, we have had to restructure the business and make 
headcount reductions as part of our effort to conserve cash resources. 
As part of the restructuring, our former Chief Operating Officer,  
Dr Ursula Ney, left the Company and the Antisoma Board in April. 
Ursula made a very significant contribution to the development of 
Antisoma, and we wish her well with future ventures. In June we 
closed our laboratories at BioPark in Hertfordshire, leaving our 
operations concentrated at our headquarters in London and at our 
Cambridge, MA site and reducing our total headcount to around 60. 
Outlook
We believe we  have the product assets, people and financial resources 
to build value for the future. We look forward to a number of important 
clinical milestones in the near-term, notably phase III data on AS1413 
and phase IIb data on AS1411, both of which we expect in the first half 
of 2011. 
Glyn Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
Barry Price
Chairman 03
OH
O
NH 2
Vernalis plc Annual report and accounts / Overview
Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s Statement
During 2010, we embarked on a strategy of 
transforming Vernalis, over time, from a cash-burning 
development stage company into a diversiﬁed, 
self-sustaining pharmaceutical company. 
Our in-house candidate, indantadol (V3381), failed in the IN-STEP 
diabetic neuropathic pain Phase II study. In addition, Biogen Idec 
halted development of a lead candidate, vipadenant, under our 
A 
2A
 Parkinson’s collaboration due to compound-speciﬁc safety 
concerns, but following successfully regaining the programme we 
will progress a follow -up compound, V81444.
Since the year end we have seen two further positive changes  
to our pipeline. Our partner, Chroma Therapeutics, secured a 
licensing deal for tosedostat (CHR2797) in North, Central and South 
America and announced that it has been granted orphan status 
for Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML). Internally, our in-house pain 
product V158866 entered Phase I studies.
The transformation of Vernalis into a diversiﬁed, self-sustaining 
pharmaceutical company will require a combination of successful 
advancement of existing in-house and partnered programmes, 
in-licensing and acquisitions. The disappointments in the clinical 
pipeline in 2010 highlight the risk that existing programmes alone 
will not be sufﬁcient to provide this transformation and a key focus 
for 2011 will continue to be in-licensing and acquisitions.
We enter 2011 with optimism that we will be able to deliver the 
transactions necessary to transform Vernalis, and also continue  
to create value from o ur existing programmes and collaborations.
Finally, we would like to thank Board Members and staff for their 
contributions during the year, and our shareholders for their 
continued support. George Kennedy, our Senior Independent 
Director, has decided that, following almost eight years with Vernalis 
and three years with its predecessor companies, he intends to retire  
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting in June. We would like 
to thank George for his outstanding contribution during his time 
with the Company and wish him well for the future.
Dr Peter Fellner
Chairman
Ian Garland
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Peter Fellner, Chairman
Ian Garland, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
An important ﬁrst step of that strategy 
was to regain 100 per cent of the 
Menarini frovatriptan royalties, 
which was successfully 
accomplished in March 2010, 
facilitated by a £28.5 million  
(net of expenses) equity 
fundraising. The dramatic 
impact of that transaction and 
associated ﬁnancing can be 
see n in our 2010 income and 
cash ﬂow statements where our 
underlying net cash burn has been 
cut dramatically from £14.5 million in 2009 
to just £4.4 million in 2010. It can also be seen in our balance sheet 
where we are now debt free and ended 2010 with £30.9 million of 
cash resources and a cash runway through to the end of 2013.
The Company ended 2010 in a strong position to continue  
its transformation, with its strong balance sheet and a closer 
alignment between revenues and investment in research and 
development. This closer alignment is not solely a result of regaining 
Menarini frovatriptan royalties but also reﬂects continued success  
in securing new or extensions of existing research collaborations, 
earning milestones under ongoing and historical partnerships  
and focused investment in in-house development programmes.
Vernalis had eight active collaborations at the end of 2010, four 
covering candidates in pre-clinical through Phase II development, 
and four ac tive research collaborations. During 2010, a new research 
collaboration was secured with Lundbeck and an existing 
collaboration with Servier was extended following a successful 
initial three-year term. Under our Hsp90 cancer collaboration with 
Novartis, the lead candidate, AUY922, progressed into Phase II in 
March 2010 triggering a $3.0 million milestone. Separately, a  
€0.75 million milestone was earned in October 2010 following early 
success under one of our Servier cancer research collaborations.  
As announced today, we have successfully regained rights to  
our Phase I ready A 
2A
 programme (V81444) from Biogen Idec. 
The year has not been without disappointments, reﬂecting the high 
risks inherent in developing novel treatments for unmet medical 
needs. In our clinical pipeline we have seen two candidate failures. 
Transforming 
Vernalis
Regained  
100 per cent  
of the Menarini  
frovatriptan  
royalties Annual Report and Accounts 2010_ 03
Business Overview Corporat e Governance Financial Statements
During 2010, Volga Gas benefited from the successful 
development of the Yuzhny Uzenskoye field which has 
provided and continues to provide valuable and profitable 
oil production, enabling the Group to report increased 
revenues and gross profits. We also made good advances 
on the development of the Vostochny Makarovskoye (“VM”) 
gas-condensate field, with a successful extended production 
test on the two initial wells. In the course of the year, we also 
identified a new material and relatively low cost exploration 
target within the Karpenskiy Licence Area which could 
materially add to the Group’s oil and gas reserves.
The major event of 2010 was, however, the testing of the 
Grafovskaya #1 sub-salt exploration well. As I explain in the 
Operational Report below, this was, regrettably, unsuccessful. 
Our disappointment is partly offset by the fact that the operations 
were conducted without incident and within budgeted cost and 
provided us eful geological data which we can use across our other 
sub-salt licence areas. Nevertheless, this well was the culmination 
of significant investment over the past three years and, based 
on the results of the well, we feel it is prudent to recognise 
substantially all of this investment as impaired. As detailed in the 
Financial Report below, this has led to an exploration expense 
of US$23.9 million in the 2010 Income Statement.
Following this result, we have decided for the time being to focus 
the Group’s efforts and investment on the development of our 
proven reserves and on exploration activity in shallow horizons 
where we have already had some success.
One of our key objectives now is to bring the VM field into 
production. Much of the development work has been 
accomplished. We completed two production wells and 
installed intra-field pipelines in 2009, and during the second  
half of 2010 we successfully conducted extended production 
tests on these two wells.
Following t he conclusion of the legal processes and subject  
to the settlement under negotiation as mentioned above in the 
Chairman’s Statement, we anticipate being able to move in a 
timely manner towards first production from the VM field. In 2007 
and early 2008 construction was commenced of a suitably scaled 
processing facility for the VM field but was put on hold in 
November 2008. Certain parts (including an H
2
S processing unit) 
of this facility will need to be relocated to the Dobrinskoye gas 
processing unit (“GPU”) site and further upgrades undertaken to 
the GPU to enable production to commence from the VM field. 
Our aim is to achieve this before the end of 2011.
Current trading
Since the beginning of 2011, oil production from the Uzenskoye 
field has been steady at approximately 1,300 bopd. We have so 
far not experienced any significant weather-related disruptions 
which impacted our oil production early in 2010. With oil sale 
prices having increased further since the st art of the year and 
costs remaining relatively low, Volga Gas continues to enjoy 
positive net operating cash flow.
Outlook
Key activities for 2011 will include ongoing management and 
development of existing production. The Group’s priority is to 
bring the VM field into production as soon as possible after the 
commercial and legal matters with Trans Nafta have been resolved. 
Drilling activity in 2011 comprises an exploration well on the 
Urozhainoy-2 Licence Area, and a development well on the 
Uzenskoye oil field. The budgeted cost of these two wells is 
US$5.5 million.
Certain fiscal changes have been included in draft legislation  
in Russia. These include proposals that would substantially 
reduce the tax burden on small oil fields. Based on current draft 
legislation, we anticipate the Uzenskoye field may benefit from 
these anticipated changes.
We look forward to delivering a successful new stream of 
production and to pursuing the other growth opportunities  
that we see  for the business.
Mikhail Ivanov
Chief Executive Officer
We look forward to delivering a successful 
new stream of production and to pursuing 
the other growth opportunities that we see 
for the business.
Chief Executive’s Report Fairpoint Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2010   03 www.fairpoint.co.uk
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
Overview
The continued focus of Fairpoint Group is to remain a leading provider
of debt solutions whilst broadening the business to offer a wider range
of products to financially stressed consumers. Over the course of 2010
Fairpoint has made significant progress in this regard; product solutions
provided to consumers are up strongly across all product lines which
now range from providing debt solutions to consumers through to
providing money savings solutions.
The focus for the Group in 2011 is to continue to broaden the range of
products and services which can be provided to help financially
stressed consumers to make their money go further.
Market  Review
Fairpoints core consumer franchise is financially stressed consumers.
Our consumers range from the over-indebted experiencing serious
financial difficulty through to the financially stretched, typically carrying
lower levels of indebtedness. Their requirements develop with changes
in the macroeconomic environment and the broader range of products
and services provided by the Group are geared to allow the business to
perform strongly throughout the economic cycle.
The first half of 2010 saw continued momentum in demand for debt
solutions from those in serious financial difficulties as the impact of
growing unemployment during the later part of 2009 was felt.
However the latter part of 2010 saw a relatively benign macroeconomic
environment for these consumers, with a combination of stable
unemployment rates and a low interest rate environment providing
favourable conditions for consumers to manage their finances.
2011 has started in the same vein, but unemployment has more
recent ly started to grow again as public sector spending cuts begin
to take hold and above target inflation raises the spectre of interest
rate increases. This would point to a resumption in demand for
debt solutions.
In the near term such market conditions are a catalyst for consolidation
and when combined with the increased regulatory hurdles and
competitive intensity, present an opportunity to grow the Group’s
market share in the debt management sector. We are now trending
quickly towards a top 5 position in the fee charging debt management
sector and this is yielding benefits in terms of scale and operating
efficiencies. The Group will continue to take a lead in consolidation
activity which we expect to continue through 2011.
During 2010 and the early part of 2011 inflationary pressures have
placed a disproportionate burden on the finances of financially stretched
consumers. This has been particularly exacerbated by growth in costs
associated with non discretionary expenditure, for exa mple, energy and
food prices. As consumer finances tighten, so does the requirement for
a broader range of money savings services. Alert to this trend the Group
began to scale its money savings offering, firstly by organically with the
introduction of a “switching” service which offered consumers the
opportunity to reduce their utility bills. Activity in this area has been
further supplemented with the acquisition of Moneyextra.com which
provides access to a much broader range of switching services and a
technology platform to extend the reach of our offering.
The market place has also evidenced a continued reduction in the
mainstream supply of credit, particularly to financially stretched
consumers. The number of financially stretched consumers is growing
at a significant rate and is expected to increase from around 7 million
consumers in 2010 to 8.3 million by 2012. These consumers are
actively seeking new ways of obtaining short term credit and this has
been evidenced by explosi ve growth in product areas such as payday
and guarantor loans. Both areas have been the subject of regulatory
review and provide potential for a new entrant with a consumer-
orientated product proposition. To this end the Group has recently
decided to launch its own lending business. We have hired a seasoned
business leader as managing director of lending to oversee the
development of a market entry strategy for deployment in early 2011
subject to the implementation of a successful proof of concept.
We expect this product line to become a substantial contributor to
revenues in the medium term. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
04   Fairpoint Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
Our performance
The Group’s financial performance was highly satisfactory given the
market backdrop, in particular:
- Our adjusted profit before tax increased by 13% to £6.9 million from
£6.1 million in 2009.
- Total comprehensive income for the year £4.0 million
(2009: £4.0 million).
- Our sources of  revenue are now much broader with 20% of revenue
from non IVA business lines in the second half of the year.
- Despite lower average fee levels on IVAs, the impact on margins
was limited.
In my report last year I outlined a series of focus areas for 2010 and can
report strong progress on each of these areas:
- Continued emphasis on cash generation from the core business –
we delivered further growth in profits and cash generation from debt
solutions allowing the Group to invest over £3.0 million in acquisitions
and £1.5 million in dividends whilst maintaining borrowing levels
of £5m. 
- Broader income streams - 20% of business achieved from
Value Added Services and Debt Management in the second half of
the year. 
- Growth in customer numbers - roll out of Value Added Services with
26,266 solutions provided in 2010 compared to 4,706 in 2009.
- Growth for total consideration of £2.0 million from debt management
acquisition – four books of debt management plans acquired in 2010
su pporting growth from 5,539 to 12,541 by the year-end. 
- Acquisition of MoneyExtra.com provides an extended platform to
deliver a broad range of financial solutions whilst adding to the
Group’s marketing reach. 
Outlook
The second half of 2010 and the early part of 2011 has seen a
reduction in demand for debt solutions after the strong start to 2010.
We expect this to change as we progress through 2011 as a
consequence of:
- Growth in unemployment – as a consequence of public sector
spending cuts. A resumption of growth in the levels of
unemployment has been shown in recent national figures and is
expected to continue.
- Interest rates are widely expected to increase in the second half
of 2011. 
- Alternative sources of credit will continue to be limited as home
equity remains depressed and mainstream lender appetite for credit
risk remains low.
- Continued regulatory pressure on the debt management sector in
particular, as standards are raised and compliance enforced.
This backdro p provides a number of opportunities for the Group
across 2011 as follows:
- The core business should benefit from a resumption in demand as
pressure on household finances increases following periods of
unemployment or interest rate increases.
- Further consolidation is likely in the debt management space as sub
scale players struggle to compete and regulatory change introduces
increased costs of operation to such companies.
- Budget conscious consumers will continue to seek support in
reducing their household expenditure in order to keep their finances
in check.
- A lack of credit supply provides an opportunity for a new player in the
short term lending market.
These characteristics provide a continuing platform for Fairpoint Group
to broaden its business.
Christopher Moat
Chief Executive Officer INTEGRATED ASSET MANAGEMENT PLC
2010 2009
Equities 15.4% 7.9%
Foreign exchange 21.4% 33.9%
Interest rate derivatives 16.4% 29.0%
Bonds 46.7% 29.2%
100% 100%
The group has continued to maintai n a strong balance sheet, despite cash and liquid assets having been reduced against last year by the cash outflow to buy-in the 
Company’s shares and the investment in Marex, which is held as a non-current financial asset.
During 2010, we disposed through redemption of substantially all of the investment we had made in our own managed funds.  This investment, made partially to 
assist investors in our funds in providing them with a secondary market but also because we believed that there was embedded value in the underlying assets, 
achieved a profit of £196,000 by way of a combination of direct profit and exchange movements.
In October we agreed a transaction with Argolis Ltd whereby they would purchase a 24.9% interest in Integrated Financial Products Ltd for £750,000 plus a further 
payment if adjusted net assets exceeded a minimum figure.  This further payment was received in 2011 but is reflected in these accounts.  Overall on this 
transaction we achieved a profit of £125,0 00, net of costs.
Brokerage
Brokerage activities in 2010 were predominately in Milan where we maintain a solid business despite an increasing competitive environment.  In total we saw a 
modest decline in gross brokerage and marketing income falling from £4.8 million to £4.5 million.  Substantially all of this fall was due the end of the relationship with 
Sal Oppenheim which resulted in a loss of gross marketing fees earned in 2009 of £808,000.
The analysis for broking income by business is set out below:
The business split changed materially between 2009 and 2010 with the new Bond desk proving a significant contributor to the business activity, and the Equities 
desk nearly doubling 2009's relative turnover contribution. Interest Rate Derivatives and FX suffered a decline, which is being reversed in the first few months of the 
current year.
In 2010 we continued to see a decline in funds under management which resulted in total income from this area being £1.62 million (2009: £2 .70 million 
(continuing)).  Net revenue margin increased from 58% in 2009 to 63% in 2010.  The funds that we have managed throughout the year have generally provided 
positive performance and distributions took place by way of redemptions and releases from side-pockets.
Management has continued to try to reduce costs without compromising control and compliance. We have merged the two regulated asset management 
companies to reduce the number of regulated entities in the Group to two, which has reduced compliance costs.  Headcount has reduced slightly with staff added in 
broking but fund management being reduced.  Finally, we have taken the opportunity to reduce group complexity by removing unnecessary intermediate holding 
companies and old business units, which has helped reduce accounting time and costs.  Overall for 2010 we reduced operating costs by 18%.
Cost structure and Balance Sheet
The fund of hedge fund sector is currently beset by claims and counter-claims and we have not  been immune to these.  Where necessary, reserves have been set 
aside at the fund level for such claims, primarily by holding back on distributions to fund shareholders or by suspending the right to redemptions.
Chief Executive Officer's Review
Overview of 2010
This financial year has been one of transition for the Company with the refocusing on our investment portfolio, the move from being listed on AIM to being unlisted 
and the significant reduction in the shareholder base with the tender offer. With the delisting and buyback behind us, since the year end we have seen a number of 
opportunities for the two businesses with several new opportunities being presented which build on our existing regulated businesses.
Corporate Transactions
At the beginning of the year we closed our first transaction when we invested some £3.5 million as part of the consortium which acquired Marex Group Ltd.  Marex 
is amongst the world’s largest independent, privately-owned brokers providing execution , direct market access and clearing services in the metals, energy, 
agriculture, financial futures and foreign exchange markets.  Marex’s client base includes commodity producers and consumers, banks, brokers, CTAs, hedge 
funds and professional traders.  Marex is a member of the London Metal Exchange, the CME Group exchanges, ICE US, NYSE Liffe, ICE Futures and Eurex and 
offers access to all major exchanges in the US and Asia. It is headquartered in London with offices in New York, Hong Kong and Geneva.  Marex subsidiaries are 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the UK, the National Futures Association in the US and the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong.
Asset Management
At the end of the year the tender offer to buy-in our shares closed and we completed the buy-in of 13.43 million shares at 20p per share at a total cost of £2.68 
million.
Marex’s business has performed well since its acquisition and we have effected a revaluation of our interest whic h is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of 
Comprehensive Income.  Since the year end Marex has continued to grow and acquired Spectron Group Ltd.   Operating from offices in London, Continental 
Europe, Asia and the US, Spectron is a leading global broker of wholesale energy and other commodity products. Spectron provides electronic and voice brokerage 
services for a diverse range of mainly Over-the-Counter (“OTC”) markets, including gas, power, environmental products, freight, crude oil and related products, 
coal, weather and metals. Spectron’s broad client base includes traders and risk managers within large oil and gas corporations, energy utilities, commodities firms, 
financial institutions and charterers.
2 INTEGRATED ASSET MANAGEMENT PLC
Chief Executive Officer's Review
Fund 2010 2009
Management Brokerage Total Total
£ 000 £ 000 £ 000 £ 000
Turnover 1,627 4,512 6,139 7,537 
Cost of sales (599) (1,663) (2,262) (2,220)
Net Revenue 1,028 2,849 3,877 5,317 
Operati ng costs (2,406) (2,705) (5,111) (6,279)
Operating (loss)/profit before amortisation of intangibles, share-based
      payment expenses and currency exchange differences (1,378) 144 (1,234) (962)
Amortisation of intangibles (12) -                     (12) (12)
Share-based payments expense 144 -                     144 (16)
Write down of investments -                     -                     -                     (36)
Currency exchange differences (168) 50 (118) (81)
Profit on sale of subsidiary/business 125 -                     125 -                     
Net gain/(loss) on financial assets 55 110 165 176 
Operating (loss)/profit (1,234) 304 (930) (931)
Net finance and other income 76 50 126 31 
(Loss)/profit on continuing activities before tax (1,158) 354 (804) (900)
Capital and Cash Flow
2010 2009
£ 000 £ 000
Net assets 8,188 10,969 
Net current assets 2,808 8,666 
Cash at bank and financial assets* 4,340 9,418 
*  Cash at bank excluding cash held under Trust by the EBT.
Dividends 
Risk Management
Operational Risk
Operational risk is the risk that the Group suffers a loss, either directly or indirectly, from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems or from external 
events. This risk manifests itself in slightly different ways across our two businesses, but in summary would include:
As mentioned earlier the investment in own funds made in 2009 was substantially realised in 2010 and an overall profit of £196,000 was achieved.  The Group 
continued to hold surplus cash in high quality interest bearing securities which were partially realised to make the Marex investment.
Foreign exchange movements had a much smaller impact this year with a net loss of £122,000 being recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive 
Income against a £2.6 million loss in 2009.
Net assets decreased primarily as a consequence of the buy–in of ordinary shares pursuant to the tender offer.  Net current assets decreased for the same reason 
as well as the investm ent in Marex which is treated as a non-current asset.
While certain amounts of cash are held by subsidiaries for both working capital and regulatory requirements, there remains significant liquidity within the Group.
The Company does not recommend the payment of a dividend (2009: £nil).
Operating in the financial services industry, Integrated faces a number of risks which are inherent to its activities and require active management. The principal 
risks for the group have been identified as operational risk and financial risks and in relation to our fund management business, investment risk,
- Broker error in negotiation of a deal.
- Administrative error either in the settlement of a broking deal or in the instruction of a trade on behalf of a fund.
- Loss of key members from a broking desk or key investment professionals.
- Introduction of new products and related issues in the legal, fiscal, regulatory and accounting domains.
Operating Margins
The group’s operating costs for 2010  showed a reduction of 18% from 2009.  Total staff numbers are down slightly, with a rise in broking more than offset by a fall 
in fund management.  All costs are carefully scrutinised and economies are made where possible but savings have been partially offset by general inflation in costs.  
On wages and salaries whilst these have been reduced in total they represent a greater proportion of total operating costs having risen from 61% in 2009 to 67% 
this year.
Excluding discontinued operations
Results Summary
Given the nature of such risks, it is Group policy to review continually the controls in place to manage them, to ensure that such controls are appropriate and 
adequate for the risks involved and that the controls have evolved and developed to reflect the changes in our underlying businesses and how it is carried out.
Whilst reading the above table it is important to note that Fund Management, historically being the largest business area, consolidates all the corporate overhead  of 
the group, and doesn't necessarily reflect the results of the stand-alone business units.
3 INTEGRATED ASSET MANAGEMENT PLC
Chief Executive Officer's Review
Financial Risk
Investment Risk
Regulatory Environment
Events after the reporting period
29 June, 2011
Also in 2011 we have participated in the financing of the Marex acquisition of Spectron Group increasing our investment by £815,000.
Chief Executive Officer
I would like to thank all our staff for their continuing support and commitment.
Each of Integrated’s principal operating subsidiaries is subject to regulation. In the United Kingdom, Integrated Alternative Investments Ltd and Integrated Financial 
Products Ltd (“IFP”), are regulated and authorised by the Financial Services Authority.
IFP’s Milan branch is responsible to the Italian regulator (“Consob”) for its conduct of business.
The Group seeks to ensure that it maintains full compliance with its regulatory obligations and in regard to regulatory capital to  maintain a surplus over and above 
that required at both an operating company level and at a consolidated group level.
After the year end the Company received the subscription agreed with the JRJ partners.  The agreement required modification as a result of the reduction in issued 
shares resulting from the buy-in.  The subscription, which concluded in March 2011, was for 2,750,092 shares at 43.6p per share, with the Company receiving £1.2 
million.  Following this subscription the Company has 19,969,215 shares in issue.
The Group operates in a number of different countries and is exposed to a number of financial risks and particularly currency risk. Details of these and the 
measures undertaken by the Group to manage them are given in note 21 of the financial statements.
E M Arbib
The financial services markets continue to increase in complexity in terms of products offered, regulation and the economic environment.  Whilst broad measures 
of activity show limited growth or retreat,  the reality is that for some areas there is significant growth in opportunities and income and in others their markets have 
almost disappeared.
Your Board is seeking to build a more robust model with a diversity of income flows, ties to larger organisations and specialist services valued both in good and in 
bad times.  This process started in 2010 and is expected to continue in the near future. This exercise will include both organic and where necessary, acquisitive 
growth. Your Board does not see the need to pay significant upfront amounts to realise this ambition but there may be a need to provide key executives with equity 
or equity like participations in the operational units in which they are involved.  We hope to be able to report progress towards the end of this year.
The Market: 2011 and Beyond
Poor investment performance in our underlying funds, either absolutely or relative to the particular fund’s peer group, may result in a decrease in management and 
performance fees  as well as redemptions in the funds by investors with similar effect.
Part of these subscription monies were utilised to repay the short term loan from Argolis Ltd of £750,000 plus interest advanced in 2010.
4 02	 International	Personal	Finance	plc	 Annual	Report	and	Financial	Statements	2010
 O ur G r o u p
Group at a glance
Our	 operations
We	operate	in	six	countries	–	Poland,	the	Czech 	
Republic,	Slovakia,	Hungary,	Mexico	and	Romania. 	
We	focus	on	emerging	markets	where	demand 	 	
for	credit	is	rising	and	consumers	are	relatively 	
underserved.	The	economic	outlook	in	most 	 	
of	our	markets	is	improving	and	there	are	good 	
growth	prospects	for	our	business.
We	are	a	leading,	international	home	credit 	
business	serving	more	than	2.2	million	customers. 	
Our	small	sum,	short-term,	unsecured	cash 	 	
loans	–	ranging	from	£50	to	about	£1,000	–	are 	
tailored	to	meet	the	needs	of	our	customers. 	 	
They	are	delivered	quickly	and	conveniently	to 	 	
the	customer’s	home	wi th	affordable	repayments 	
collected	weekly	by	a	dedicated	agent	–	typically 	
between	a	six	month	to	one	year	period.
Our	vision	and	values
Our vision
We	aim	to	be	a	leading	provider	of	simple	financial 	
products	and	services	to	people	of	modest	means. 	
We	do	this	by	building	close,	long-term	relationships 	
with	our	customers,	our	people,	our	business 	
partners	and	the	communities	in	which	we	work, 	
and	by	being	a	trusted	and	responsible	business. 	
Our values
Our	values	govern	everything	we	do.	They 	 	
support	our	vision	and	are	central	to	delivering 	 	
the	business	strategy.	They	help	us	provide 	
outstanding	customer	service,	deliver	high 	 	
levels	of	business	performance	and	underpin 	 	
our	commitment	to	work	responsibly. 	
We are respectful
Treating	others	as	we	would	like	to	be	treated.
We are responsible 
Taking	due	care	in	all	our	actions	and	decisions.
We are straightforward
Being	open	and	transparent	in	everything	we	do.
Key 
  Our	established	markets
  Our	develo ping	markets
EM
DM
DM
  Mexico Page	51
Kenny McPartland
Country	 Manager	
Established		 2003	 	
Population		 108	million 	
Number	of	customers		 598,000	
Number	of	employees	 1,500	
Number	of	agents	 7,100	
Number	of	branches	 45	
Credit	issued	per	customer		 £201	
Currency		 Mexican	peso 2
IPSO Ventures plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
This has been a particularly difficult year 
for IPSO due to the Group’s working capital 
constraints. Despite this we are pleased 
to report that the underlying portfolio 
companies have been performing strongly. 
We have also been provided with very clear 
ideas of future demand from our industrial 
partners. We remain of the belief that we 
have excellent access to technologies to 
enable us to develop products and solutions 
to meet this demand. Areas that we are 
currently investigating include electric 
vehicle infrastructure, energy efficient 
buildings and telehealthcare. 
We have been held back in making new 
investments during the year b y the lack of 
significant funds available for investment. 
Despite this we have still been able to 
make progress as detailed below.
Investments
As well as providing significant hands-on 
management, human capital and 
administrative support to our portfolio 
companies, we have invested a further 
£307,000 during the year.
Healthcare
Our joint venture with Imperial Innovations plc, 
Medermica Limited, which is developing 
wound management and other diagnostic 
and measurement technologies, received 
further funding of £135,000 from IPSO during 
the period. A new patent application relating 
to a novel technology for the measurement 
of pH was filed in May 2009. This innovative 
pH measuring device works with ultra small 
volumes of liquid and is cheap, accurate, 
rapid and disposable. Further development 
of the prototype devices has taken place 
and discussions have commenced with 
potential licensees.
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s review
  Summary of Chairman’s 
and Chief  Executive’s review 
“ This financial year has been a tough one 
for the sector and particularly for IPSO 
due to working capital constraints, despite 
a maturing portfolio. We have taken 
appropriate steps to address this by reducing 
our cost base to suit the circumstances. 
We believe that, through these changes, 
we have an opportunity to deliver greater 
profitability in the future. We are also 
excited about the opportunities for new 
business that we have identified from our 
discussions with our industrial partners.”
 Simon Hunt
 Executive Chairman 3
IPSO Ventures plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Process and software
An additional £25,000 was invested in 
Axilica Limited, alongside a similar amount 
from the East Midlands Early Growth Fund. 
Axilica has a novel software product, FalconML, 
which accelerates the specification and 
design of electronic systems. Axilica has 
secured an initial licensee for its product 
and is actively developing further customer 
endorse ments to maximise value in 
pre paration for a planned exit. 
Energy and environmental
In October 2009, we established IPSol Energy 
Limited to provide business and technical 
solutions to the solar photovoltaic market 
with a focus on the provision of testing 
services. As at 30 April 2010, we had invested 
a total of £147,000 in this company and 
further working capital has been provided 
since the year end. The management team 
at IPSol Energy is currently finalising an 
external funding round.
Financial and operational review 
Changes in fair value of investments
We recorded an increase of £151,000 in the 
fair value of our investment in Therakind in 
accordance with our accounting policies.
Revenues
Our efforts to generate revenues are starting 
to produce results with an increase to £83,000 
(2009: £27,000).
Investment activities
Investments during the year totalled £307,000, 
as set out above, plus a further £12,000 of 
capital for IPSO Capital Limited, the Company’s 
FS A regulated corporate finance business. 
Of these amounts a total of £294,000 was 
invested in IPSol Energy, IPSO Capital 
and Medermica which are all shown as 
subsidiaries on consolidation and, therefore, 
are excluded from the investments total 
of £1,629,000 shown in the consolidated 
statement of financial position.
Operating costs
Administrative expenses show an increase 
this year to £987,000 compared with £917,000 
in 2009. However, this includes approximately 
£188,000 of operating costs for IPSol Energy 
which, if excluded, would bring the operating 
costs down to £799,000. Research and 
develop ment expenses for Medermica 
Limited, which is currently a wholly-owned 
subsidiary, totalled £67,000 compared with 
£206,000 in 2009.
Cash
At the year end IPSO had cash and short-term 
investments totalling £159,000.
Events since the year end
Since the year end, Therakind Limited, 
our paediatric healthcare business, has 
sold one of its products and generated 
a significant  upfront payment, as well 
as future royalties, in a transaction that 
has undoubtedly further increased the 
value of that business.
In addition, as referred to above, IPSO has 
concluded a fundraising of £325,000 from 
a group of private investors, two of whom, 
Craig Rochford and John Kelly, have joined 
the Board of IPSO as Non-executive Directors. 
Going concern and auditors’ report
The new funding described above will allow 
us to manage and develop the portfolio into 
2011 but we will need further funding from 
the sale of portfolio assets or a further 
fundraising to allow us to progress beyond 
then and to make further new investments. 
We are confident that we can achieve this.
However, the uncertainty related to the 
requirement to raise further funding and/or 
realise cash from the sale of portfolio assets 
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s 
ability to continue as a going concern. 
Therefore, the Group may be unable to 
realise its assets and discharge its liab ilities 
in the normal course of business. The 
financial statements do not include the 
adjustments that would result if the Group 
was unable to continue as a going concern. 
In the event the Group ceased to be a going 
concern, the adjustments would include 
writing down the carrying value of assets 
to their recoverable amount and providing 
for any further liabilities that might arise.
The report of the auditors on the financial 
statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 
is not qualified, but includes an emphasis 
of matter in respect of this material 
uncertainty over going concern.
Outlook 
Through the actions we have taken during 
the year under review, the subsequent 
fundraising and the undoubted progress 
we have made in our portfolio, we believe 
that we are better placed to deliver strong 
shareholder value from our activities. 
We are grateful for the support of our 
colleagues and our collaborators and 
we look forward to further progress 
in the current year. 
Simon  Hunt
Executive Chairman
Nick Rodgers
Chief Executive 
18 August 2010 Tawa plc 2
Tawa plc Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2010
For the year ended 31 December 2010 Joint statement of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 0
To our Shareholders,
We had a number of successes during 2010. On the servicing
side the successful management of our largest clients’ Schemes,
the launch of STRIPE
®
, the securing of a number of consulting
and outsourcing projects and an enhanced relationship with Swiss
Re have partially offset the expected coming to an end of major
contracts, whilst maintaining a good profitability level. On the
investment side, the acquisition of both Island Capital and Oslo
Re (UK), the strategic partnership with Lincoln General in the US,
a deal to transfer the legacy portfolio of a top 50 Lloyd’s broker and
also multiple investments in reinsurance debt (a new activity using
the skills within Pro), show the extended reach of our teams.
We are indeed leveraging more  than our sole equity, we are
leveraging the skills acquired in insurance restructuring and change
management, to diversify our investment portfolio and to provide
services which are value creative to our clients business and
therefore more profitable to us.
This will change the Group’s metrics from being cash extraction
driven to a more balanced mix of recurring cash flows with
continued releases of excess regulatory capital from the risk
carriers. In 2010, we extracted $47 million from our run-off
investments after $40 million extracted in 2009. But this year we
also generated $4 million of pre-tax earnings from our servicing
business.
These figures confirm that the acquisition of Pro in 2009 is already
paying off, and is accelerating the transition of our group from a
pure run-off acquirer model to a more diversified insurance investor
model. Pro is providing the Group with a larger footprint in the
market, the benefits of which are now beginning to show through.
Service business  - Pro
Pro is well known for outsourcing and creating seamless
administration solutions. It is less well known for expert consultancy
services.
In order to have a better visibility for both divisions, we now have a
structure built around clearly identified lines of business, to enhance
profitable growth capacity: Consulting     and Outsourcing. The
Outsourcing division refers mainly to work we do on behalf of
clients on our platform. Consulting typically refers to work provided
directly for our clients.
Pro’s Consulting division is a rapidly growing area. The creation
of a stand-alone division reflects its increasing importance as a
revenue stream. The consulting unit focuses on specific projects
to deliver value and improve organizational effectiveness. We
provide services such as business consultancy (change
management, project management, process improvement,
business analysis and data engineering) as well as (re)insurance
and financial support services.
We plan to move upstream to wards providing more high end,
value-added consulting. This year, we are strengthening our team
through refocus and expansion of our technical specialists and
consultants. We are also building on our Swiss Re preferred
supplier status to expand within large organisations across the
world. We continue to enlarge our service offering beyond the
run-off focus by capitalising on our wide ranging industry
expertise and network.
Pro’s Outsourcing division, provides clients with the opportunity
to leverage the functions outsourced to Pro into a true value
creation tool benefiting their own organizations. Practically, Pro
provides clients insurance back-office outsourcing in all its various
aspects. Pro also manages Tawa’s existing run-off companies.
In this division, the expected but significant reduction of work for
long standing clients following the successful managing of their
wind down plans meant that whilst we were able to redeploy
significant numbers of employees we had to let som e others go.
We want to take this opportunity to thank each of them for their
dedicated efforts for the Company and to wish them well for the
future.
To build towards a larger scale we have enhanced Pro’s external
sales strategy and created a marketing ethos to ensure sales
are a major component of the daily job for each individual across
the organization.
Bearing in mind this rebalancing of client mix, achieving our service
division growth targets will be a challenge.  2010 has been a
transition year which has prepared us to attain our goals. They
require our business and our people to be dynamic, responsive
and outgoing and to maintain their technical excellence at its
highest level. Our aim is to be “best in class”, and by some
margin, wherever we operate. Tawa plc 3
Tawa plc Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2010
0
Portfolio acquisitions and investments     
In the acquisition arena, we now have an even stronger M&A
team bearing the responsibility of overseeing and imple menting
any group investment, whether debt, insurance recoveries,
portfolio or service company acquisitions.
Our strategy remains as it has been for a few years, of not
participating actively in the auction environment but sourcing
acquisition targets where the skill sets and expertise of Tawa’s
staff are best deployed. This was evidenced by the acquisitions
on 22 October 2010 of 94.3% of the ordinary shares of Island
Capital Ltd and its wholly owned subsidiary Island Capital (Europe)
Ltd, which were specialist trade and credit insurers, and Oslo
Reinsurance (UK) Limited, which completed on 10 March 2011.
While sticking to this disciplined approach, we have seen an
increase in the number of interesting opportunities in the market
and are progressing a number of them. Having achieved further
cash extractions from our risk carriers ($47 million this year), we
are investing our capital in the classes of assets we know best
which should both enable us to use our expertise to create value 
from the businesses we acquire, as well as providing more clients
for our outsourcing business.
STRIPE
®
Through the high profile launching of STRIPE
®
, the market is
gaining awareness of how STRIPE
® 
matches the most critical
needs of the insurance industry in respect of the automation of
claims processing. STRIPE
® 
is a secure internet based solution
which requires little, if any, I.T. infrastructure investment and can
interact with existing claims systems at both ends of a transaction.
We are seeing the first fruits of our investment in the development
of STRIPE
® 
which has the potential to become part of the fabric of
the market.
In conclusion, we would like to thank our shareholders for their
strong support during 2010; it has been a challenging and
interesting year, one where we have laid the foundations and built
the momentum for a stronger and more profitable Group.
We will be proposing dividends equal to the enhanced dividend
we distributed last year, of 2.5p per sha re, payable as to 1.25p per
share interim dividend in June 2011 and 1.25p per share final in
December 2011, which together represents an approximate 4%
yield to stock price. While we are permanently managing cash
flow for future investment needs, we believe our shareholders
should receive value for holding their shares.
As the Group approaches its 10
th
 anniversary, the goal we have
set is that by this time next year we will have moved the group
towards a more broadly based model, focused on acquisitions
and the development of our service offering. It will bring more
depth and breadth to our services, the companies we own and
the geographies in which we operate. This, whilst retaining what
makes us different from other places, namely our people; people
with high expertise, skills and integrity, working together to achieve
our common purpose in a challenging but supportive work
environment.
Colin Bird Gilles Erulin
Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chairman’s statement and Chief Execu tive’s review 
Page 2 
Westside Acquisitions plc announces its results for the year ended 31
st
 December 2010. 
 
Chairman’s Statement and Chief Executive’s Review 
 
The economy continues to experience a slow, low rate of growth going forward ~ although it may narrowly 
have avoided a decline into a double-dip recession.  In the absence of any strong upturn conditions are likely 
to remain challenging. 
 
For the year ended 31 December 2010, we are reporting a pre-tax loss of £636,664 (2009: £650,384).  
Westside’s net cash balances as at 31 December 2010 were £ 411,402 (2009: £849,169). 
 
The Directors are not recommending the payment of a dividend. 
 
Subsidiaries 
 
We have two operating subsidiaries: Reverse Take-Over Investments Plc (‘RTI’) and Pantheon Leisure Plc 
(‘Pantheon’). 
 
 
Pantheon Leisure 
 
Following proposals announced in August 2010, Pantheon made a tender offer to buy back and cancel up to 
45,500,000 Pantheon shares at 0.4p per share.  Vali d acceptances were received in respect of 33,162,841 
shares and on 23 September 2010 the admission to trading of Pantheon’s ordinary shares on AIM was 
cancelled. 
 
Westside holds 85.87% of the issued share capital of Pantheon subsequent to completion of the buy back 
and share cancellation ~ which is represented by a beneficial interest of 75 million Pantheon ordinary shares. 
 
The group’s sports and leisure division incorporating, The Elms Sport in Schools (‘ESS’) and The Elms Small 
Sided Football, have contributed profit of £115,538 on turnover of £1,410,127 (2009: £58,591 profit on 
turnover of £1,170,242). 
 
ESS has generated good growth over the period as its sport in schools initiatives continue to gain traction.  
The Elms’ small sided football turnover in 2010 was broadly the same as for 2009. 
 
During the year, the management team at ESS was restructured and will work in conjunction with the 
managing director, Barbara Moss. This will strengthen and divers ify the leadership team as the company 
continues to expand its operations. ESS now has more than 10,000 children a week participating in various 
structured tuition programmes. 
 
We are delighted to have appointed to the board of ESS James Vaughan (aged 32) as joint managing 
director, Jason O’Connor (aged 25) as director of coaching and Angela Wilcox (aged 35) as director of 
administration and their contribution will be highly significant as we continue to increase the number of 
participants enrolled in our sport in schools programmes. 
 
Pantheon also holds 6,254,000 ordinary shares in Fitbug Holdings plc (“Fitbug”) which represents a 5.6% 
interest in the issued share capital of that company.  We include the value of the Fitbug shares in the 
Westside balance sheet at its quoted market value at 31 December 2010 in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards.  This has resulted in a further charge of £265,005 included in the total 
comprehensive loss repor ted for the period.  The directors consider that this represents only a temporary 
diminution in value rather than impairment.  The current bid price of Fitbug is 3.25p and at that price the 2010 
provision would have been reduced by approximately £104,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Chairman’s statement and Chief Executive’s review 
Page 3 
RTI 
 
At 31 December 2010, Westside owned 100% of the share capital of RTI, which specialises in creating shell 
companies that are subsequently used to make substantial acquisitions with the objective of securing a 
quotation for the shell. 
 
Market conditions have not been favourable to new market offerings and no investments were made in the 
year. 
 
In April 2010 the investment in Astek Group plc was realised to produce cash proceeds of £125,000 following 
an offer made to all shareholders at 0.625p per share by the management shareholders of Astek. 
 
RTI continues to hold 800,000 shares in Cheerful Scout plc (‘Cheerful’), which repr esents a stake of 10.2% 
and 23 million shares in Messaging International plc (‘Messaging’), which represents a stake of 9.75%. 
 
Cheerful is a multimedia specialist company and Messaging is a provider of innovative mobile messaging 
services.  Both companies trade on AIM. 
 
The market value of the RTI portfolio for investments held at year end is £255,895 (2009: £373,900). 
 
Outlook 
 
We look forward to continuing progress at Pantheon and, in particular, its sports tuition activities which 
continue to expand.  The RTI investment portfolio should benefit from any improved trading experienced by 
both Cheerful and Messaging. 
 
We look forward to updating shareholders on progress. 
 
 
Richard Owen 
Chairman 
 
Geoffrey Simmonds 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
9 June 2011 
 
  3 w w w . vph a s e . c o . u k 	 V Ph as e plc
Group Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Richard H Smith
Chief Executive Officer
  
Mission:
Our  mission is to be the leading supplier of •	
products for domestic and light commercial 
energy efficiency in the UK and selected 
international markets.
Vision:
Our vision is clear:
We will develop long term relationships with  •	
key partners and customers to drive consumer 
demand.
We will continuously innovate in the design, •	
manufacture and supply of products to satisfy 
changing customer needs and seek to expand 
our portfolio of products from both internal and 
external sources.
We will achieve this through committed  •	
people operating in an open and stimulating 
environment.
Values:
Efficiency  We will promote energy efficiency  
in our markets and efficiency in  
our own operations.
Innovation   We are committed to innovation in  
our products, processes, service 
and support.
Partnership  We will work closely with strategic 
partners to support our key 
competences, and with our 
employees to drive our business 
forward.
“Working with our 
strategic partners and  
our employees we will 
drive the business 
forward.”
Operating Review 2010
Since my appointment as Chief Executive Officer in September 
2010 I have made sure that both the strategic objectives and the 
short term targets for the business are clearly understood, both 
internally and by our shareholders, as we set out at the time of our 
interim results in September 2010.
Six Months of Progress
In December 2010, we announced our first Framework Agreement 
with Eaga, part of EAGA plc, and this has already resulted in a 
further supply agreement via Eaga with Everest Limited who now 
offer VPhase with every solar Photovoltaic (“PV”) or energy efficient 
boiler they sell. The Eaga agreement enables us to offer national 
fulfilment within our advertising and marketing campaigns, directed 
at both retailers and domestic customers.
The Group has completed or has ongoing trials with 27 different 
social housing groups and local authorities. This will be an area of 
considerable focus f or the Group over the forthcoming period and 
a significant number of enquiries are currently being progressed.
CERT Accreditation
CERT (Carbon Emission Reduction Target) is seen as a key enabler 
to accelerate the adoption of our technology.
Over the last six months, an increased effort has been placed on 
securing CERT credits. The field trial results, as independently analysed 
by EA Technology, were submitted to Ofgem in October 2010, their 
peer review by AEA Technology was completed by December 2010 
and our response to that review submitted by the end of 2010. 
On 21 March 2011 Ofgem confirmed that VPhase has secured a 
CERT measure based around its initial Demonstration Action with 
Scottish and Southern Energy (“SSE”) and Ofgem; at 2.5 tonnes of 
carbon dioxide over a 20 year measure. The savings represent an 
excellent, proven approach to lowering household carbon 
emissions, yet the figure falls somewhat short of anticipated results, 
given that the device has been indep endently rated for a 36 year 
component lifespan. Other trials, for example Great Places and 
staff homes, have demonstrated carbon dioxide savings to be 
around 3.6 tonnes over a notional 20 year life. The CERT 
Demonstration Action that was conducted in association with SSE 
has indicated energy savings of 5.2 % (6.3% for a gas centrally 
heated home). Whilst this is an important energy saving figure, the  Annu Al RepoRt 2010   
Byotrol plc
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am delighted to present my statement covering my first full year as Chairman. The past year has seen the 
Group make good progress, despite the challenging economic conditions. Sales grew strongly, particularly in 
the first half year, and the second half exceeded market expectations.  We also continued to strengthen the 
protection of our intellectual property with new patents applied for and existing applications being granted. 
Financial results
During the year, the Group achieved revenues of £3,145,157 (2009: £929,84 7). The loss for the financial year 
of £1,825,406 compared with a loss of £2,929,706 in the previous year. The balance sheet reflects a year end 
net worth of £3,560,529 (2009: £4,229,357) and the cash in hand was £766,215 (2009: £2,863,909).
                      
Our priority continues to be the acceleration of growth, with existing and new customers, whilst ensuring 
stringent cost management in the business.
Strategy 
We continued to pursue a more focussed strategy concentrating on: 
 Healthcare: through our agreement with Synergy Health
 Food: through our distributors, Arco, Bunzl and Sorsky 
 Consumer Products: through our joint venture, Byotrol Consumer Products.  Discussions are 
advancing with a number of potential partners.
 Agriculture: through a network of niche distributors
People
I am delighted to welcome Gary Millar as our new Chief Executive Officer. Gary is an experienced senior 
executive with many years’ experience in sales and marketing.  David  McRobbie has become the CEO of 
Byotrol Inc, and will focus on developing our business in the US, utilising his many years of experience in that 
market.  Iain Duncan Smith stood down from the Board in May 2010, as his appointment to the Cabinet of the 
new Government required him to relinquish all outside interests. I would like to thank him for his contribution 
to the Group during the past twelve months.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to record our sincere thanks to all of the Byotrol team for their efforts 
during the past year.  We are proud of the significant progress they have achieved, despite the challenging 
external conditions.
Current trading outlook
Since the year end we have been:
 awarded a prestigious NWDA GRAND award aimed at funding the next generation Byotrol 
technology
 granted further UK/European patents broadening the coverage of our technology protection
The Board believes that the Group is in a much stronger position than it was a year ago.  A numbe r of new 
business opportunities are in development and the timing of these will affect the Group’s cash requirements 
which are constantly closely monitored by the Board.  The current outlook is promising, despite the continuing 
general economic uncertainty.
Ralph Kugler
Chairman
5 July 2010
2
3
CHAIRMAn’S StAteMent
Byotrol plc
DIRECTORS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISORS
Directors
Ralph David Kugler (Non-executive Chairman)
Gary Millar (Chief Executive Officer)
David Martyn McRobbie (Director and CEO Byotrol Inc)
Stephen Brian Falder (Business Development Director and Deputy Chairman)
Richard William Bell FCA (Finance Director)
Adrian John Russell Smith (Non-executive Director)
Till Medinger (Non-executive Director)
Secretary and registered office
Richard W Bell
Riverside Works
Collyhurst Road
Manchester
M40 7RU
Auditors
Baker Tilly UK Audit LLP
3 Hardman Street
Manchester
M3 3HF
Nominated Advisor and Broker
Arbuthnot Securities
20 Ropemaker Street
London
EC2Y 9AR
Bankers
Lloyds TSB plc
 1 King Street
Manchester
M2 4WQ
Solicitors
Field Fisher Waterhouse LLP
35 Vine Street
London
EC3N 2AA
Registrars
Capita Registrars
Northern House
Woodsome Park
Fenay Bridge
Huddersfield
HD8 0LA
1
The Hygiene Revolution
CHAIRMAn’S StAteMent Byotrol plc
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Food and Beverage supply chain
Byotrol’s powerful instant killing of germs, followed by long lasting germ protection after it has dried, has 
particular advantages for the food industry. This industry is characterised by routinely high standards of 
hygiene. Any technology that can ensure and enhance those standards is rigorously scrutinised before being 
adopted. During this year I was delighted that the prestigious Society of Food Hygiene and Technology 
(SOFHT) awarded Byotrol its Product of the year for 2009. This is a tremendous recognition of our technology 
by experts in the field.
During the year we have conducted extensive trials with leading retailer Marks and Spencer which have 
produced excellent  results when used in difficult-to-clean areas, where residual activity and the use of non-
aggressive chemicals is required.
Good progress is being made in turning this differentiated offering into products supplying the food production 
industry via national and international distribution businesses such as Arco Limited, Bunzl Retail Supplies 
Limited and Sorsky Limited.  Many retailers have influence over the products used throughout their supply 
chain resulting in adoption of technologies throughout the supply chain at the behest of the ultimate retailer.
In the middle months of 2009 the potential of an H1N1 (the swine flu virus) pandemic created a sudden 
upswing in interest and demand for our products in this market, especially for hand hygiene.  The Group was 
capable of responding rapidly to increases in demand that took place within days. By having strong 
arrangements with key contracted suppliers we were able to meet orders that others, constrained by internal 
capacity, we re not.
Consumer Products
This is the largest potential market for our technology and success will be achieved in partnership with some of 
the world’s largest companies and in association with some of the world’s best known brands. Engaging with 
these companies is the task of our joint venture Byotrol Consumer Products Limited (BCP). Good progress has 
been made this year. Several international businesses are in detailed negotiation with BCP to take Byotrol 
technology into their markets of personal care, hand hygiene and a variety of household care products.
It was particularly pleasing that Boots chose to use Byotrol in their own brand anti viral hand mousse which is 
now available throughout the UK and carries the Byotrol brand on the front of its label. This is an indication of 
the potential for Byotrol to be made available to very large numbers of customers by jointly describing clear 
consumer benefits supported by outstanding and compelling scientific data.
In December 20 09 BCP and Byotrol plc signed an exploratory agreement with a large USA based multinational 
corporation.  For a consideration of $250,000 we agreed to work with them exclusively in the fields of surface 
liquids and treated wipes for an agreed period.  Significant effort is being dedicated to achieving a successful 
outcome from this major commitment by both parties and we expect to be able to update the market on 
developments in the near future.
In February 2010 we completed the acquisition of the assets of ByoFresh Limited, a small, successful niche 
user of Byotrol for pet care markets. Benefits have already been gained from this transaction. The acquisition 
has given us the vehicle to develop our presence in the valuable worldwide pet care market.
Agriculture 
Independent testing and growing uptake by dairy farmers shows that Byotrol’s gentle skin safe activity can 
bring real benefits to farmers who need to maintain high standards of cleanliness, without compromising 
animal  welfare, whilst also operating in agricultural conditions with well known cost pressures.
4
Annu Al RepoRt 2010   
Byotrol plc
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
In assessing the highlights for the year under review, I must start by paying tribute to the outgoing CEO, David 
McRobbie, who has steered the company he co-founded from a start-up business into a global enterprise. 
David has been an unswerving advocate of Byotrol technology and the company he has helped to shape. The 
successes of the past year are due to his leadership of the Byotrol team. 
Strategy
I have joined the company as CEO to transform the size and profitability of the business. In my first few weeks 
I have reviewed the significant progress made to date and I am confident that the potential for growth is 
realisable on the timescales we envisage.  I am very impressed with the breadth of application for this 
remarkably powerful technology which, uniquely, combines superior anti-microbial  impact, superior residual 
perfo rmance, an ability to be used in the most sensitive of applications due to its non corrosive characteristics, 
and significant economic drivers. I believe that this technology is world class - we have the best hand hygiene 
and surface hygiene systems in the world. I am hugely motivated by these facts and determined to realise the 
business success that this potential offers. 
My first priority is to build on the success of last year and to quickly turn the business into a profitable, cash 
generative enterprise. Having reviewed our sector strategy and routes to market I believe we are well 
positioned to achieve that goal, but to do so we must be relentless in our execution.
Our overarching strategy is ultimately to make Byotrol a globally recognised ingredient brand. This will be 
achieved by building on recent success and the focused execution of our strategy of delivering growth in our 
Core areas. These will be developed in partnership with significant businesses already supplying  into, or with 
the large scale capability to supply, these niche markets.
Our Core markets are:
 Healthcare
 Food and Beverage supply chain
 Consumer Products
 Agriculture 
Central to our strategy is our belief that Byotrol’s technological strengths, coupled with the potential for very 
wide incorporation into everyday products used worldwide, set it apart from other available technologies. 
Healthcare
Byotrol signed its initial licensing agreement with Synergy Health plc in 2006 for exclusive access to 
healthcare markets in certain countries. During the year the Group received a payment of £450,000 under the 
agreement to extend Synergy’s exclusivities in a number of European countries. 
Healthcare customers are generally highly conservative, often responding slowly to new technologies.  Despite 
this understanding, I am disappointed with the slow uptake of the technology in healthcare generally and by the 
NHS in particular. The outlook however is for a healthcare  market which will be seeking to achieve improved 
efficiencies, which Byotrol can provide, as budgets come under pressure. 
Against this growing sentiment for better performing and more cost effective solutions, the results released 
during the year of the very extensive Manchester Royal Infirmary trial are particularly encouraging. These 
results demonstrated Byotrol as superior to the current NHS Gold Standard for disinfection by outperforming it 
consistently during a closely supervised independent study that extended to 11 months. This was, we 
understand, the largest comparative study of disinfectants conducted in the UK for over 20 years. Not only is 
Byotrol better performing and more cost effective than the existing disinfection standard, further significant 
benefits accrue from its application to sensitive and expensive equipment routinely corroded by the existing 
disinfectant regime.
3
4
CHIeF eXeCutIVe’S RepoRt
The Hygiene Revolution Annu Al RepoRt 2010   
Byotrol plc
CH IEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Food and Beverage supply chain
Byotrol’s powerful instant killing of germs, followed by long lasting germ protection after it has dried, has 
particular advantages for the food industry. This industry is characterised by routinely high standards of 
hygiene. Any technology that can ensure and enhance those standards is rigorously scrutinised before being 
adopted. During this year I was delighted that the prestigious Society of Food Hygiene and Technology 
(SOFHT) awarded Byotrol its Product of the year for 2009. This is a tremendous recognition of our technology 
by experts in the field.
During the year we have conducted extensive trials with leading retailer Marks and Spencer which have 
produced excellent results when used in difficult-to-clean areas, where residual activity and the use of non-
aggressive chemicals is required.
Good progress is being made in turning this differentiated offering into products supplying the food production 
industry via nati onal and international distribution businesses such as Arco Limited, Bunzl Retail Supplies 
Limited and Sorsky Limited.  Many retailers have influence over the products used throughout their supply 
chain resulting in adoption of technologies throughout the supply chain at the behest of the ultimate retailer.
In the middle months of 2009 the potential of an H1N1 (the swine flu virus) pandemic created a sudden 
upswing in interest and demand for our products in this market, especially for hand hygiene.  The Group was 
capable of responding rapidly to increases in demand that took place within days. By having strong 
arrangements with key contracted suppliers we were able to meet orders that others, constrained by internal 
capacity, were not.
Consumer Products
This is the largest potential market for our technology and success will be achieved in partnership with some of 
the world’s largest companies and in association with some of the world’s best known brands. Engaging with 
thes e companies is the task of our joint venture Byotrol Consumer Products Limited (BCP). Good progress has 
been made this year. Several international businesses are in detailed negotiation with BCP to take Byotrol 
technology into their markets of personal care, hand hygiene and a variety of household care products.
It was particularly pleasing that Boots chose to use Byotrol in their own brand anti viral hand mousse which is 
now available throughout the UK and carries the Byotrol brand on the front of its label. This is an indication of 
the potential for Byotrol to be made available to very large numbers of customers by jointly describing clear 
consumer benefits supported by outstanding and compelling scientific data.
In December 2009 BCP and Byotrol plc signed an exploratory agreement with a large USA based multinational 
corporation.  For a consideration of $250,000 we agreed to work with them exclusively in the fields of surface 
liquids and treated wipes for an agreed period.  Si gnificant effort is being dedicated to achieving a successful 
outcome from this major commitment by both parties and we expect to be able to update the market on 
developments in the near future.
In February 2010 we completed the acquisition of the assets of ByoFresh Limited, a small, successful niche 
user of Byotrol for pet care markets. Benefits have already been gained from this transaction. The acquisition 
has given us the vehicle to develop our presence in the valuable worldwide pet care market.
Agriculture 
Independent testing and growing uptake by dairy farmers shows that Byotrol’s gentle skin safe activity can 
bring real benefits to farmers who need to maintain high standards of cleanliness, without compromising 
animal welfare, whilst also operating in agricultural conditions with well known cost pressures.
4
5
CHAIRMAn’S StAteMent
Byotrol plc
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
In assessing the highlights for the year under review, I must start by paying tribute to the outgoin g CEO, David 
McRobbie, who has steered the company he co-founded from a start-up business into a global enterprise. 
David has been an unswerving advocate of Byotrol technology and the company he has helped to shape. The 
successes of the past year are due to his leadership of the Byotrol team. 
Strategy
I have joined the company as CEO to transform the size and profitability of the business. In my first few weeks 
I have reviewed the significant progress made to date and I am confident that the potential for growth is 
realisable on the timescales we envisage.  I am very impressed with the breadth of application for this 
remarkably powerful technology which, uniquely, combines superior anti-microbial  impact, superior residual 
performance, an ability to be used in the most sensitive of applications due to its non corrosive characteristics, 
and significant economic drivers. I believe that this technology is world class - we have the best hand hygiene 
and surface hygiene systems in  the world. I am hugely motivated by these facts and determined to realise the 
business success that this potential offers. 
My first priority is to build on the success of last year and to quickly turn the business into a profitable, cash 
generative enterprise. Having reviewed our sector strategy and routes to market I believe we are well 
positioned to achieve that goal, but to do so we must be relentless in our execution.
Our overarching strategy is ultimately to make Byotrol a globally recognised ingredient brand. This will be 
achieved by building on recent success and the focused execution of our strategy of delivering growth in our 
Core areas. These will be developed in partnership with significant businesses already supplying into, or with 
the large scale capability to supply, these niche markets.
Our Core markets are:
 Healthcare
 Food and Beverage supply chain
 Consumer Products
 Agriculture 
Central to our strategy is our belief that Byotrol’s technological  strengths, coupled with the potential for very 
wide incorporation into everyday products used worldwide, set it apart from other available technologies. 
Healthcare
Byotrol signed its initial licensing agreement with Synergy Health plc in 2006 for exclusive access to 
healthcare markets in certain countries. During the year the Group received a payment of £450,000 under the 
agreement to extend Synergy’s exclusivities in a number of European countries. 
Healthcare customers are generally highly conservative, often responding slowly to new technologies.  Despite 
this understanding, I am disappointed with the slow uptake of the technology in healthcare generally and by the 
NHS in particular. The outlook however is for a healthcare market which will be seeking to achieve improved 
efficiencies, which Byotrol can provide, as budgets come under pressure. 
Against this growing sentiment for better performing and more cost effective solutions, the results released 
during the year of t he very extensive Manchester Royal Infirmary trial are particularly encouraging. These 
results demonstrated Byotrol as superior to the current NHS Gold Standard for disinfection by outperforming it 
consistently during a closely supervised independent study that extended to 11 months. This was, we 
understand, the largest comparative study of disinfectants conducted in the UK for over 20 years. Not only is 
Byotrol better performing and more cost effective than the existing disinfection standard, further significant 
benefits accrue from its application to sensitive and expensive equipment routinely corroded by the existing 
disinfectant regime.
3
The Hygiene Revolution 03
 Cosalt plc Annual report & financial statements 2010
Overview
Chief Executive’s 
Review
In a challenging business environment, during a period that 
has also seen considerable internal change at Cosalt, we 
have focused on maintaining the quality of provision of our 
safety products and services within our key Of fshore market 
and organised the sale, subject to shareholder approval, 
of our Marine division. This will enable Cosalt to focus in 
future on its already established presence in the Oil and 
Gas market, as well as the Offshore Wind Sector through our 
newly established Renewable Energy arm. The Company will 
also intend to provide safety-focused Workwear to each of 
these sectors, building on its existing activities in this area.
In common with many other sectors of the economy, market 
conditions in the Offshore and Marine industries have been 
challenging over the past 18 months. Macroeconomic 
uncertainties and low oil prices led to significantly reduced 
activity as clients re-examined their investment plans and 
sought ways to reduce costs whilst maintaining margins.
The 20 April 2010 oil spillage in the Gulf of Mexico was a 
difficult time for the whole industry but one which served 
to re-focus the entire Offshore oil sector’s attention on 
the absolute primacy of safety on  rigs. The oil companies 
are taking this opportunity to re-examine every aspect of 
their operational procedures, with particular emphasis 
on safety and equipment maintenance programmes. 
There is undoubtedly a role for those at the leading edge 
of supplying safety products and services to the Sector to 
demonstrate the value they add through the breadth of 
their experience and their expertise.
Against this backdrop, I can report that we have kept a 
rigid focus on five key strategic objectives to underpin plans 
for the recovery and long-term growth of the Group.
Our position as the “gold standard” specialist provider of  >
critical safety equipment.
Downward pressure on costs and overheads. >
Concentration on growth areas such as the Offshore  >
renewable energy Sector and specific niche product 
areas such as the supply and maintenance of a new 
generation of lifeboats.
Supporting customers international development into  >
emerging markets including West Africa, Kazakhstan 
 and Brazil.
Expansion and consolidation of customer base. >
Cosalt Offshore
Cosalt Offshore supplies, inspects, tests, maintains and 
manages a wide range of safety equipment, from portable 
lifting and working-at-height equipment, gas detection 
and breathing apparatus and powered hand tools to 
lifeboats and liferafts, for the Offshore oil and gas industry. 
We also provide a range of inspection services for Offshore 
fixed platforms and portable rigs operating out of three 
sites at Aberdeen, Lowestoft and Stavanger. The business 
employs 300 specialist engineering staff and provides a 
pan-North Sea supply of goods and services to the oil and 
gas industry.
For the 14 month period ended 31 December 2010, Cosalt 
Offshore reported turnover of £42.1 million (12 months 2009: 
£44.2 million) and operating profit before special items of 
£2.1 million (12 months 2009: £5.3 million).
We retained and increased business from our existing 
client base, as well as winning some major contr acts with 
new clients, including two contracts with leading seabed 
to surface engineering company, Acergy, worth an 
estimated £3 million per annum, to supply and manage all 
its new subsea lifting equipment in the UK and Norwegian 
sectors of the North Sea. We also extended our long-term 
collaboration with Sparrows for the supply of services to key 
customers such as BP.
Our lifeboat supply and servicing business, launched 
in 2008, continues to grow and represents an area of 
significant potential expansion in the period ahead. 
Cosalt has been working with key operators in the industry 
and regulators to draw up new international regulations 
covering the design and specifications of a new generation 
of lifeboat. We have won several important new contracts in 
this area with BP, Talisman and Chevron worth a combined 
£0.9 million.
Management issues at our Aberdeen operation during 
the year have been very time consuming. As previously 
announced we became aware of some doubtfu l 
transactions that took place within the Offshore division 
and a stock shortfall was subsequently identified. The 
Company is now pursuing claims through the Scottish 
courts and will update the market further as and when 
required. We would like to thank both the Aberdeen 
management and staff for pulling together to get through 
such a difficult period and their focus is now on the future. 
The senior management team has been strengthened with 
the recent appointment of Rob Buchan as the new CEO 
of the Offshore Division and Runar Blakstad as Managing 
Director of the Norwegian operation and we believe their 
combined expertise will aid future growth.
There are prospects for a continued improvement in 
market conditions during 2011, with increased activity levels 
generally within the Offshore oil and gas sectors, both in 
the North Sea and further afield, and consolidation recently 
in the Sector with a merger between Subsea7 and Acergy 
and the proposed acquisition of PSN by Woo d Group. 
These four major players are existing clients of Cosalt and 
we are looking to supply their needs as they seek ever 
higher standards of quality and safety from a smaller 
number of reliable partner suppliers.
Cosalt Renewables
We believe that supplying services and equipment to the 
UK Renewables industry from our existing geographical 
bases can be an area of significant growth for Cosalt. In 
July 2010, Cosalt established Cosalt Wind Energy (CWE) as 
a separate business, coming under the umbrella of Cosalt 
Renewables. CWE has secured a framework agreement 
with Siemens, the largest supplier of Offshore wind turbines, 
for the installation and servicing of turbines as well as 
the safety training of their Offshore operatives. Operating 
in partnership with Danish specialist, APRO, our aim is 
to establish CWE as a “turnkey” partner for both turbine  04
 Cosalt plc Annual report & financial statements 2010
suppliers and wind farm operators, able to supply the full 
rang e of services and ancillary equipment they need.
Cosalt Marine
Cosalt Marine comprises four main business units – UK 
Marine, Continental Marine, Crewsaver and Workwear – 
and supplies goods and services to the international freight 
shipping and cruise industries. The Division performed in 
line with the Board’s expectations in 2010, meeting all of its 
key targets. For the period under review turnover was £69.9 
million (12 months 2009: £63.6 million) whilst operating 
profit before special items was £3.1 million (12 months 
2009: £4.9 million). The Division’s focus throughout 2010 
was on improving returns within the business, securing 
new contracts with existing and new customers, and on 
extending our product offering, including a range of state-
of-the-art lifejackets and hi-vis clothing. We have today 
signed an agreement with Survitec Group to sell Cosalt 
Marine, with the exception of the Workwear business which 
will continue as part of the Group.
Cosalt Workwear 
The Workwear business won a number of important 
contracts during the year. This included a new framework 
agreement with the Fire & Rescue Service in South East 
and Eastern England, with potential to generate revenue in 
excess of £30 million over eight years, for the supply of fire 
tunics, over-trousers, hoods, helmets, boots and gloves and 
a contract to provide the North West Fire & Rescue service 
with new fire tunics and over-trousers. There were also two 
new contracts in the rail Sector, including an extension 
with Network Rail to supply protective clothing to 18,000 
employees and a three-year contract with Babcock Rail to 
provide a range of protective equipment for the company’s 
workforce nationwide.
People
The Board believes that the commitment and expertise of 
our people make them one of the most talented teams 
in the Sector. To everyone in the Cosalt team I express 
my thanks for the outstanding contribution they make to 
the Company.
Mark Lejman
Chief Executive 
3 May 2011
Chief Executive’s Review 
continued DCD Media Plc      Financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2010 
 
3  
 
 
 
Chief Executive's Review  
 
DCD Media has faced its challenges over recent months with cost and development initiatives, a 
reorganisation of its production assets and a new funding proposal.  The Group has also recently been 
addressing the issue of succession planning within certain of its business areas.  
 
To address the production area, DCD Factual has been created to house the existing brands of West Park 
Pictures and Prospect Pictures, both of which have enjoyed successful production runs, and to ensure new 
talent can be attracted and incentivised. The foundations for this are now in place. To ensure its successful 
development, the Board considers that additional funding is required to support this division’s objectives.   
 
Management and Board Changes 
 
Similar development initiatives to the above changes are being considered acr oss the Group and steps are 
taking place at an early stage to improve DCD’s performance during the next period. Executive headcount 
has reduced during the last financial period and as part of this process, the Group intends to appoint new 
non-executive directors to the Board.  A full announcement disclosing all the details as required by Schedule 
2 paragraph (g) of the AIM Rules will be made once the appointments are confirmed. 
 
 
Chief Executive’s Review of Divisions 
Review of activity within the Group during the eighteen months period. 
 
The group has four key operating divisions : 
 
-  Factual Television Production - This division is involved in the production of factual based television 
content from the Prospect Pictures, Westpark and DCD Factual brands. The results of Matchlight Ltd 
are also contained in this division. 
- Entertainment Television Production – This division is involved in the production of entertainment 
based television content. This includes prod uctions by September Films. 
- Event Management – This division organises and manages events, primarily music concerts through 
Done & Dusted.  
- Rights and Licensing – This division is involved with the sale of distribution rights, DVDs, music and 
publishing deals through DCD Rights, DCD DVD, DCD Music and DCD Publishing. 
 
 
 
Factual Division 
 
During the period, the Group reshaped the structure of its factual production wing in order to take advantage 
of the synergies and economies of owning successful production brands by further consolidating the 
management and back office functions into a centralised DCD Factual operating unit. 
 
This was a strategic move to increase future profitability, bring a distinct focus to DCD Media's strong 
presence in the factual genre, and position the factual production pool for an even bigger push into the 
international television markets, particularly in the US where other DCD Media producers have a high profile 
presence. 
 
The factu al division launched in September 2010 continues to promote individual brands with their unique 
style and output. Including Prospect Pictures, Prospect Cymru (Wales), and West Park Pictures. 
  
Prospect Pictures / Prospect Cymru (Wales) (Prospect) 
 
During the period, the London and Cardiff based company delivered two successive seasons of its high 
volume, low cost lifestyle series Daily Cooks Challenge for ITV1, with a revision of the latest series made 
for ITV3. It also substantially increased its supply of short films for BBC One’s flagship magazine show The 
One Show from 8 films in 2009 to 50 films for broadcast across 2010-2011. 
 
Factual highlights included the critically acclaimed two-part documentary Autistic Superstars for BBC Three 
which received an Royal Television Society award nomination, and a raft of new documentaries for BBC 
Four including the award-winning feature length film Elgar – The Man Behind The Mask, Chopin – The  DCD Media Plc      Financial sta tements for the period ended 31 December 2010 
 
4  
Women Behind The Music which marked the composer 200
th
 birth anniversary, and Remembrance Day 
special Battlefield Poet Keith Douglas. 
 
Prospect also successfully co-produced the world’s first ever 3D live opera broadcast Lucrezia Borgia with 
sister company Done and Dusted for Sky and 3D cinemas. 
 
The period notably saw a new commissioning out of the Cardiff-based company, Prospect Cymru, which 
produced a number of programmes for the BBC channels. Management believe that Wales is a vital part of 
the Group’s factual strategy going forward, expecting Prospect Cymru to become one of the DCD’s main 
popular factual content providers in 2011 and as such have increased the Group’s investment there. This 
rationale is supported by the fact Wales saw the biggest growth in the BBC’s economic impact of all the 
nations and regions with a considerable 17.9% boost in 2009/2010*. 
 
Prospect’s slate for FY2011 includes the tr ansmission of Misbehaving Mums To Be, a major 6-part series 
commissioned by BBC Three, the 2-part BBC documentary Passion of Port Talbot starring Michael Sheen, 
and a new high profile documentary drama show about the life of Shirley Bassey, currently in pre-production 
with BBC Two.  Further information on the financial impact of the reorganisation of this unit is contained 
within the Finance Director’s Review. 
 
West Park Pictures 
 
Specialist factual producer West Park delivered two instalments of its Masterpiece series produced with The 
Prince’s Charities Events – The Arch of Enlightenment and The Emperor’s Secret Garden which were 
both broadcast on Sky Arts and continued production on its two part documentary The Tallest Tower for 
Channel 4 and Discovery Europe. 
 
Highlights for the period included the one-hour special Last Chance to See Special: Return of The 
Northern White Rhino, co-produced with BBC Wales for BBC Two; the delivery of three-part series 
Nature� �s Power Revealed for Readers Digest and feature length documentary Punchdrunk’s Duchess of 
Malfi which transmitted in late 2010 on More4. 
 
Post year end West Park Pictures underwent a management restructure as part of the ongoing integration of 
the factual production entities under the new DCD Factual umbrella. West Park's slate of programming for 
FY2011 including documentaries for Channel 4, Discovery UK and various corporate clients is now under the 
management of the Group’s factual division. Further information of the financial impact of the reorganisation 
of this unit is contained within the Finance Director’s Review. 
 
Matchlight 
 
Since its formation Matchlight, the collaboration between DCD and a group of prominent Scottish programme 
makers, has grown to become one of Scotland’s leading production companies. 
 
From its base in Glasgow the company is ideally placed to take advantage of the BBC’s increased 
commitment to sourcing more of its output from the U K’s nations and regions. The BBC has already met its 
2012 target of 6% of original television commissions from Scotland and remains committed to a further rise 
of 2.9% to a total of 8.9% by 2016. Channel 4 has also renewed its commitment to out-of-London 
commissioning and has identified Scotland as a growth area. 
 
The Group is delighted that the strategic move to capture a share of this market has paid off.  In the period 
since it was brought within the Group Matchlight was commissioned to make series or individual films for 
BBC One, BBC Two, BBC Three, BBC Four, BBC Scotland and Channel 4. 
 
Highlight’s included the Royal Television Society nominated history series At Home with the Georgians for 
BBC Two, presented by Prof. Amanda Vickery; a special two-part Imagine arts documentary for BBC One 
presented by Alan Yentob and entitled The Trouble with Tolstoy; See You in Court (previously titled Libel) 
a major six part documentary series for BBC One; and a two part series f or BBC Two fronted by Rory 
Stewart MP. Both See You in Court and the BBC Two series are due to transmit later in 2011.  
 
Looking forward Matchlight has secured a solid slate of development projects which contributes to a positive 
outlook: it has secured its first commission from Channel 5, a six part popular factual series about nervous 
drivers fighting their fears currently entitled So You Think You Can’t Drive; a three part history series for 
BBC Two and BBC Four; as well as three major projects in funded development with Channel 4. 
  DCD Media Plc      Financial statements for the period ended 31 December 2010 
 
5  
Further information on the financial accounting impact of the formation of this venture are contained within 
the Finance Director’s Review. 
 
Entertainment 
 
September Films 
 
September Films, the Group’s transatlantic producer of reality television, entertainment and formats had 
another prosperous period, delivering high rated primetime programming in  both the UK and the US, and 
strategically expanding the breadth of its output into new genres. 
